Future of Jobs Report 
2025
I N S I G H T  R E P O R T
J A N U A R Y  2 0 2 5


Terms of use and disclaimer
World Economic Forum
91-93 route de la Capite 
CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva 
Switzerland 
Tel.: +41 (0)22 869 1212 
Fax: +41 (0)22 786 2744 
E-mail: contact@weforum.org 
www.weforum.org 
Copyright © 2025 
by the World Economic Forum
All rights reserved. No part of this publication 
may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, 
or transmitted, in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, or otherwise 
without the prior permission of the World Economic 
Forum.
ISBN 978-2-940631-90-2
https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-future-of-
jobs-report-2025/
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
The findings, interpretations and conclusions 
expressed in this work do not necessarily reflect 
the views of the World Economic Forum. The report 
presents information and data that were compiled 
and/or collected by the World Economic Forum 
(all information and data referred herein as “Data”). 
Data in this report is subject to change without 
notice. The terms country and nation as used in 
this report do not in all cases refer to a territorial 
entity that is a state as understood by international 
law and practice. The terms cover well-defined, 
geographically self-contained economic areas that 
may not be states but for which statistical data are 
maintained on a separate and independent basis. 
Although the World Economic Forum takes every 
reasonable step to ensure that the data thus 
compiled and/or collected is accurately reflected 
in this report, the World Economic Forum, its 
agents, officers and employees: (i) provide the data 
“as is, as available” and without warranty of any 
kind, either express or implied, including, without 
limitation, warranties of merchantability, fitness 
for a particular purpose and non-infringement; (ii) 
make no representations, express or implied, as to 
the accuracy of the data contained in this report or 
its suitability for any particular purpose; (iii) accept 
no liability for any use of the said data or reliance 
placed on it, in particular, for any interpretation, 
decisions, or actions based on the data in this 
report. Other parties may have ownership interests 
in some of the data contained in this report. The 
World Economic Forum in no way represents or 
warrants that it owns or controls all rights in all data, 
and the World Economic Forum will not be liable to 
users for any claims brought against users by third 
parties in connection with their use of any data. 
The World Economic Forum, its agents, officers 
and employees do not endorse or in any respect 
warrant any third-party products or services by 
virtue of any data, material or content referred to 
or included in this report. Users shall not infringe 
upon the integrity of the data and in particular 
shall refrain from any act of alteration of the data 
that intentionally affects its nature or accuracy. If 
the data is materially transformed by the user, this 
must be stated explicitly along with the required 
source citation. For data compiled by parties other 
than the World Economic Forum, users must 
refer to these parties’ terms of use, in particular 
concerning the attribution, distribution, and 
reproduction of the data. When data for which the 
World Economic Forum is the source (herein “World 
Economic Forum”), is distributed or reproduced, 
it must appear accurately and be attributed to the 
World Economic Forum. This source attribution 
requirement is attached to any use of data, whether 
obtained directly from the World Economic Forum 
or from a user. Users who make World Economic 
Forum data available to other users through any 
type of distribution or download environment agree 
to make reasonable efforts to communicate and 
promote compliance by their end users with these 
terms. Users who intend to sell World Economic 
Forum data as part of a database or as a stand-
alone product must first obtain the permission from 
the World Economic Forum (CNES@weforum.org).
Future of Jobs Report 2025
2


Contents
© 2025 World Economic Forum. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be 
reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying and recording, 
or by any information storage and retrieval system.
Disclaimer 
This document is published by the World Economic Forum as a contribution to a project, insight 
area or interaction. The findings, interpretations and conclusions expressed herein are a result 
of a collaborative process facilitated and endorsed by the World Economic Forum but whose 
results do not necessarily represent the views of the World Economic Forum, nor the entirety of 
its Members, Partners or other stakeholders.
Preface
Key findings
Part I: The Future of Jobs 2025
Introduction: The global labour market landscape in 2025
1 Drivers of labour-market transformation
1.1 Expected impact of macrotrends on business 
      transformation
2 Jobs outlook
2.1 Total job growth and loss 
2.2 Expected impact of macrotrends on employment
3 Skills outlook
3.1 Expected disruptions to skills 
3.2 Drivers of skill disruption
3.3 Reskilling and upskilling strategies
4 Workforce strategies
4.1 Barriers to transformation 
4.2 Improving talent availability
5 Region, economy and industry insights
5.1 Region and economy insights 
5.2 Industry insights
Conclusions
Endnotes
Appendix: Report Methodology
User Guide
Contributors 
Collaborators
Acknowledgments
4
5
7
8
10
10 
18
18
25
32
32
43
45
49
49
52
65
65
81
94
95
97
108 
222
223
224
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025
3


Preface
Over the past decade, the World Economic Forum’s 
bi-annual Future of Jobs Report has followed 
evolving technological, societal and economic 
trends to understand occupational disruption and 
identify opportunities for workers to transition to the 
jobs of the future.
As we enter 2025, the landscape of work continues 
to evolve at a rapid pace. Transformational 
breakthroughs, particularly in generative artificial 
intelligence (GenAI), are reshaping industries and 
tasks across all sectors. These technological 
advances, however, are converging with a broader 
array of challenges, including economic volatility, 
geoeconomic realignments, environmental 
challenges and evolving societal expectations. In 
response, this fifth edition of the Future of Jobs 
Report expands its focus, offering a comprehensive 
analysis of the interconnected trends shaping the 
global labour market.
Central to the report is a unique dataset derived 
from an extensive survey of global employers. This 
year’s edition captures the perspectives of over 
1,000 employers – representing more than 14 
million workers across 22 industry clusters and 55 
economies – providing unparalleled insights into 
the emerging jobs landscape for the 2025-2030 
period. This report would not be possible without 
their openness to contributing their views and 
insights, and we sincerely thank them all. We greatly 
appreciate, too, the support of our survey partners, 
which have enhanced the report’s geographical 
coverage.
These perspectives are further enriched by research 
collaborations and data partnerships with ADP, 
Coursera, Indeed and LinkedIn, whose innovative 
data and analysis complement the survey findings. 
This publication has been made possible by the 
dedication and expertise of its project team: 
Till Leopold, Attilio Di Battista, Ximena Játiva, 
Shuvasish Sharma, Ricky Li and Sam Grayling, 
alongside the wider team at the Centre for the New 
Economy and Society. 
The disruptions of recent years have underscored 
the importance of foresight and collective action. 
We hope this report will inspire an ambitious, 
multistakeholder agenda – one that equips workers, 
businesses, governments, educators and civil 
society to navigate the complex transitions ahead.
Saadia Zahidi 
Managing Director 
World Economic Forum
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025
4


Technological change, geoeconomic fragmentation, 
economic uncertainty, demographic shifts and the 
green transition – individually and in combination 
– are among the major drivers expected to shape 
and transform the global labour market by 2030. 
The Future of Jobs Report 2025 brings together 
the perspective of over 1,000 leading global 
employers—collectively representing more than 
14 million workers across 22 industry clusters and 
55 economies from around the world—to examine 
how these macrotrends impact jobs and skills, and 
the workforce transformation strategies employers 
plan to embark on in response, across the 2025 to 
2030 timeframe.
	–
Broadening digital access is expected to be 
the most transformative trend – both across 
technology-related trends and overall – with 
60% of employers expecting it to transform 
their business by 2030. Advancements in 
technologies, particularly AI and information 
processing (86%); robotics and automation 
(58%); and energy generation, storage and 
distribution (41%), are also expected to be 
transformative. These trends are expected to 
have a divergent effect on jobs, driving both 
the fastest-growing and fastest-declining roles, 
and fueling demand for technology-related 
skills, including AI and big data, networks and 
cybersecurity and technological literacy, which 
are anticipated to be the top three fastest-
growing skills.
	–
Increasing cost of living ranks as the second-
most transformative trend overall – and the top 
trend related to economic conditions – with 
half of employers expecting it to transform 
their business by 2030, despite an anticipated 
reduction in global inflation. General economic 
slowdown, to a lesser extent, also remains 
top of mind and is expected to transform 42% 
of businesses.  Inflation is predicted to have 
a mixed outlook for net job creation to 2030, 
while slower growth is expected to displace 1.6 
million jobs globally. These two impacts on job 
creation are expected to increase the demand 
for creative thinking and resilience, flexibility, and 
agility skills.
	–
Climate-change mitigation is the third-most 
transformative trend overall – and the top trend 
related to the green transition – while climate-
change adaptation ranks sixth with 47% and 
41% of employers, respectively, expecting these 
trends to transform their business in the next 
five years. This is driving demand for roles such 
as renewable energy engineers, environmental 
engineers and electric and autonomous vehicle 
specialists, all among the 15 fastest-growing 
jobs. Climate trends are also expected to 
drive an increased focus on environmental 
stewardship, which has entered the Future of 
Jobs Report’s list of top 10 fastest growing skills 
for the first time.
	–
Two demographic shifts are increasingly seen 
to be transforming global economies and 
labour markets: aging and declining working 
age populations, predominantly in higher-
income economies, and expanding working 
age populations, predominantly in lower-income 
economies. These trends drive an increase 
in demand for skills in talent management, 
teaching and mentoring, and motivation and 
self-awareness. Aging populations drive growth 
in healthcare jobs such as nursing professionals, 
while growing working-age populations fuel 
growth in education-related professions, such 
as higher education teachers.
	–
Geoeconomic fragmentation and geopolitical 
tensions are expected to drive business model 
transformation in one-third (34%) of surveyed 
organizations in the next five years. Over one-
fifth (23%) of global employers identify increased 
restrictions on trade and investment, as well 
as subsidies and industrial policies (21%), 
as factors shaping their operations. Almost 
all economies for which respondents expect 
these trends to be most transformative have 
significant trade with the United States 
and/or China. Employers who expect 
geoeconomic trends to transform their business 
are also more likely to offshore – and even more 
likely to re-shore – operations. These trends 
are driving demand for security related job 
roles and increasing demand for network and 
cybersecurity skills. They are also increasing 
demand for other human-centred skills such 
as resilience, flexibility and agility skills, and 
leadership and social influence.
Extrapolating from the predictions shared by 
Future of Jobs Survey respondents, on current 
trends over the 2025 to 2030 period job creation 
and destruction due to structural labour-market 
transformation will amount to 22% of today’s 
total jobs. This is expected to entail the creation 
of new jobs equivalent to 14% of today’s total 
employment, amounting to 170 million jobs. 
However, this growth is expected to be offset by 
the displacement of the equivalent of 8% (or 92 
million) of current jobs, resulting in net growth of 
7% of total employment, or 78 million jobs. 
Key findings
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025
5


	–
Frontline job roles are predicted to see the 
largest growth in absolute terms of volume 
and include Farmworkers, Delivery Drivers, 
Construction Workers, Salespersons, and Food 
Processing Workers. Care economy jobs, such 
as Nursing Professionals, Social Work and 
Counselling Professionals and Personal Care 
Aides are also expected to grow significantly 
over the next five years, alongside Education 
roles such as Tertiary and Secondary Education 
Teachers.
	–
Technology-related roles are the fastest-
growing jobs in percentage terms, including 
Big Data Specialists, Fintech Engineers, AI and 
Machine Learning Specialists and Software 
and Application Developers. Green and energy 
transition roles, including Autonomous and 
Electric Vehicle Specialists, Environmental 
Engineers, and Renewable Energy Engineers, 
also feature within the top fastest-growing roles.
	–
Clerical and Secretarial Workers – including 
Cashiers and Ticket Clerks, and Administrative 
Assistants and Executive Secretaries – are 
expected to see the largest decline in absolute 
numbers. Similarly, businesses expect the 
fastest-declining roles to include Postal Service 
Clerks, Bank Tellers and Data Entry Clerks.
On average, workers can expect that two-fifths 
(39%) of their existing skill sets will be transformed 
or become outdated over the 2025-2030 period. 
However, this measure of “skill instability” has 
slowed compared to previous editions of the 
report, from 44% in 2023 and a high point of 57% 
in 2020 in the wake of the pandemic. This finding 
could potentially be due to an increasing share of 
workers (50%) having completed training, reskilling 
or upskilling measures, compared to 41% in the 
report’s 2023 edition. 
	–
Analytical thinking remains the most sought-
after core skill among employers, with seven 
out of 10 companies considering it as essential 
in 2025. This is followed by resilience, flexibility 
and agility, along with leadership and social 
influence. 
	–
AI and big data top the list of fastest-growing 
skills, followed closely by networks and 
cybersecurity as well as technology literacy. 
Complementing these technology-related skills, 
creative thinking, resilience, flexibility and agility, 
along with curiosity and lifelong learning, are 
also expected to continue to rise in importance 
over the 2025-2030 period. Conversely, manual 
dexterity, endurance and precision stand out 
with notable net declines in skills demand, with 
24% of respondents foreseeing a decrease in 
their importance. 
While global job numbers are projected to 
grow by 2030, existing and emerging skills 
differences between growing and declining 
roles could exacerbate existing skills gaps. The 
most prominent skills differentiating growing 
from declining jobs are anticipated to comprise 
resilience, flexibility and agility; resource 
management and operations; quality control; 
programming and technological literacy. 
Given these evolving skill demands, the scale of 
workforce upskilling and reskilling expected to be 
needed remains significant: if the world’s workforce 
was made up of 100 people, 59 would need 
training by 2030. Of these, employers foresee that 
29 could be upskilled in their current roles and 19 
could be upskilled and redeployed elsewhere within 
their organization. However, 11 would be unlikely to 
receive the reskilling or upkskilling needed, leaving 
their employment prospects increasingly at risk.
Skill gaps are categorically considered the biggest 
barrier to business transformation by Future of 
Jobs Survey respondents, with 63% of employers 
identifying them as a major barrier over the 2025-
2030 period. Accordingly, 85% of employers 
surveyed plan to prioritize upskilling their workforce, 
with 70% of employers expecting to hire staff with 
new skills, 40% planning to reduce staff as their 
skills become less relevant, and 50% planning to 
transition staff from declining to growing roles.
Supporting employee health and well-being is 
expected to be a top focus for talent attraction, 
with 64% of employers surveyed identifying it 
as a key strategy to increase talent availability. 
Effective reskilling and upskilling initiatives, along 
with improving talent progression and promotion, 
are also seen as holding high potential for talent 
attraction. Funding for - and provision of - reskilling 
and upskilling are seen as the two most welcomed 
public policies to boost talent availability. 
The Future of Jobs Survey also finds that adoption 
of diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives remains 
on the rise. The potential for expanding talent 
availability by tapping into diverse talent pools is 
highlighted by four times more employers (47%) 
than two years ago (10%). Diversity, equity and 
inclusion initiatives have become more prevalent, 
with 83% of employers reporting such an initiative 
in place, compared to 67% in 2023. Such 
initiatives are particularly popular for companies 
headquartered in North America, with a 96% 
uptake rate, and for employers with over 50,000 
employees (95%).
By 2030, just over half of employers (52%) 
anticipate allocating a greater share of their revenue 
to wages, with only 8% expecting this share to 
decline. Wage strategies are driven primarily by 
goals of aligning wages with workers’ productivity 
and performance and competing for retaining talent 
and skills. Finally, half of employers plan to re-
orient their business in response to AI, two-thirds 
plan to hire talent with specific AI skills, while 40% 
anticipate reducing their workforce where AI can 
automate tasks.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
6


Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Part I: The Future 
of Jobs 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025
7


Introduction:  
The global labour 
market landscape 
in 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
The year 2025 unfolds amid ongoing 
transformations in global labour markets. Since 
the COVID-19 pandemic, rising cost of living, 
geopolitical conflicts, the climate emergency and 
economic downturns have added further turbulence 
to technology-driven global employment changes. 
While the global economic outlook appears to be 
stabilizing, it does so amid weaker global growth 
projections of 3.2% for 2025.1 Global inflation 
appears to have eased and is now projected 
to reach 3.5% by the end of 2025 – below the 
average global rate of the first two decades of the 
21st century. However, living costs remain elevated 
around the world.
Aided by a stabilizing economic outlook and easing 
inflation, the global unemployment rate, at 4.9%,2 
stands at the lowest level since 1991. However, 
this headline figure hides a range of disparities. 
While middle-income countries are experiencing 
reductions in unemployment, low-income countries 
have seen an increase, from 5.1% in 2022 to 5.3% 
by 2024. 
Reductions in unemployment have also lagged 
for women. Since 2020, when the global 
unemployment rate peaked for both sexes at 6.6%, 
the rate for men has declined to 4.8%, while the 
rate for women remains elevated at 5.2%. This 
trend is driven mainly by lower-middle income 
countries, where the female unemployment rate 
(of 5.5%) is 1.1% higher than the male equivalent. 
High-income countries have an unemployment rate 
gender disparity of 0.4%; however, this disparity 
has existed for over a decade – rather than opening 
up during the post-COVID recovery. For low-
income and upper-middle income countries, male 
and female unemployment rates remain even.
Youth unemployment rates tell another story 
of labour-market health. While the global youth 
unemployment rate has tracked the total global 
unemployment rate, it remains elevated at 13%. 
Assessing rates of youth not in employment 
education or training (NEETs) highlights disparities 
between economies at different national income 
levels. While the global NEET rate remains flat at 
21.7%, it stands at just 10.1% for high-income 
economies, rising to 17.3% for upper-middle 
income ones. The rate then jumps to 25.9% for 
lower-middle income economies and 27.6% for 
low-income ones. 
The jobs gap – a measure by the International 
Labour Organization (ILO) to incorporate a 
broader understanding of unemployment and 
underemployment – adds additional nuance to 
our understanding of the labour-market situation. 
Similarly to global headline unemployment, the jobs 
gap has been decreasing and stood at a need for 
402 million additional jobs in 2024. While most of 
the world has experienced this downward trend, 
low-income economies saw their jobs gap increase 
by 0.4 percentage points compared to pre-
pandemic levels. Lower-middle income economies 
saw the largest reduction in the jobs gap (by 2 
percentage points compared to 2019 levels). 
Across all country income groups, the jobs gap 
for women is higher than that for men, but gender 
differences are most pronounced in low-income 
and especially lower-income economies, where the 
jobs gap for women surpasses that of men by 7.5 
percentage points. 
The global labour-force participation rate has 
rebounded after a drop during the pandemic and 
now stands at similar levels to 2019 for all income 
groups except lower-middle income economies. 
In lower-income economies the labour-force 
participation rate has spiked beyond the levels seen 
in 2019. This is noteworthy considering lower-
middle income economies – who make up around 
40% of the global population – will drive the bulk of 
working-age population growth in the coming years 
and decades. The combination of growing working-
age populations and labour-force participation rates 
emphasizes the importance of job creation in these 
economies.
Against the backdrop of this current labour-market 
landscape, the Future of Jobs Report 2025 analyses 
how organizations expect the labour market to 
evolve over the next five years until 2030. Like 
previous editions of the report, this analysis is 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
8


based on the World Economic Forum’s Future 
of Jobs Survey, conducted in late 2024, which 
brings together the perspectives of more than 
1,000 global employers, collectively employing 
more than 14.1 million workers across 22 industry 
clusters and 55 economies. The survey highlights 
how macrotrends and technology will influence 
industry transformation and employment, the jobs 
and skills outlook over the next five years and the 
corresponding workforce transformation strategies 
companies plan to use to address these issues.
The report begins by outlining five macrotrends 
impacting the labour market – technological 
change, the green transition, geoeconomic 
fragmentation, economic uncertainty and 
demographic shifts. In Chapter 2, the report 
discusses how organizations expect jobs to 
evolve, including which jobs are predicted to grow 
and decline fastest, and the trends driving these 
changes. Chapter 3 looks at projected changes 
to the skills needed in the labour market, before 
Chapter 4 analyses the workforce practices that 
employers plan to adopt in their organizations. 
Finally, Chapter 5 provides insights for the nine 
regions, 55 economies, and 22 industry clusters 
that meet the report’s statistical thresholds for 
standalone analysis. The appendix provides a 
detailed overview of the report’s survey and analysis 
methodology. 
In addition, the Future of Jobs Report 2025 features 
a comprehensive set of Region, Economy and 
Industry Profiles. User guides are provided for each 
of these profiles to support their use as practical, 
standalone tools.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
9


Drivers of 
labour-market 
transformation
Technological developments, the green transition, 
macroeconomic and geoeconomic shifts, and 
demographic changes are driving transformation in 
the global labour market, reshaping both jobs and 
required skills. This chapter provides a picture of 
how companies expect these macrotrends to drive 
industry transformation by 2030.
Expected impact of macrotrends on business 
transformation
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
1
1.1
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Macrotrends driving business transformation
F I G U R E  1 . 1
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Broadening digital access
Rising cost of living, higher prices or inﬂation
Increased efforts and investments to reduce carbon emissions
Increased focus on labour and social issues
Slower economic growth
Increased efforts and investments to adapt to climate change
Ageing and declining working-age populations
Increased geopolitical division and conﬂicts
Growing working-age populations
Increased restrictions to global trade and investment
Increased government subsidies and industrial policy 
Stricter anti-trust and competition regulations
Geoeconomic fragmentation
Demographic shifts
Economic uncertainty
Societal issues
Technology change
Green transition
60%
50%
47%
46%
42%
41%
40%
34%
24%
23%
21%
17%
Share of employers surveyed that identify the stated trend as likely to drive business transformation.
Technological change
More employers – 60% – expect broadening digital 
access to transform their business than any other 
trend, with similar proportions of employers across 
all regions selecting this trend. This growing digital 
access is a critical enabler for new technologies to 
transform labour markets (Figure 1.1).
The Future of Jobs Survey asked employers how 
advances in nine key technologies are transforming 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
10


Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Technology trends driving business transformation, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  1 . 2
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
AI and information processing technologies
Robots and autonomous systems
Energy generation, storage and distribution
New materials and composites
Semiconductors and computing technologies
Sensing, laser and optical technologies
Quantum and encryption
Biotechnology and gene technologies
Satellites and space technologies
86%
58%
41%
30%
20%
18%
12%
11%
9%
Share of employers surveyed that identify the stated technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Generative AI (GenAI), in particular, has witnessed a 
rapid surge in both investment and adoption across 
various sectors. Since the release of Chat GPT 
in November 2022, investment flows into AI have 
increased nearly eightfold.3 This influx of capital has 
been accompanied by investment in the physical 
infrastructure needed to support these emerging 
technologies, including servers and energy 
generation plants. By leveraging natural language 
processing technology, GenAI enables users to 
interact with it as though they were conversing with 
a human, considerably reducing barriers to usage 
and the need for specialized technical knowledge.4 
Accordingly, the demand for GenAI skills by 
both businesses and individuals has also grown 
significantly (Box B1.1).
Although more generalized adoption of AI 
applications remains comparatively low, with only 
a small fraction of firms using it in 2023, adoption 
is growing rapidly, albeit unevenly across sectors. 
The information technology sector is leading 
the way in AI adoption, while industries such as 
construction are lagging behind.5 This disparity 
mirrors broader trends, with advanced and middle-
income economies experiencing unprecedented 
diffusion of generative AI technologies among 
individual users, while low-income economies 
remain largely on the margins, with currently 
minimal use of this technology.6 
While the full extent of long-term productivity 
gains from the technology remains uncertain, 
workplace studies have identified various initial 
ways for generative AI to enhance human 
skills and performance. Some of these studies 
have highlighted ways for generative AI to 
enhance human core skills, or to substitute 
for tacit knowledge among newer or average 
performing workers.7,8 Other studies have shown 
generative AI can enhance knowledge work if 
applied appropriately within its capability, but 
risks producing adverse outcomes where users 
unknowingly stretch it beyond its capability.9 
Looking further ahead, some observers argue 
generative AI could empower less specialized 
employees to perform a greater range of “expert” 
tasks – expanding the possible functions of roles 
such as Accounting Clerks, Nurses, and Teaching 
Assistants.10 Similarly, the technology could 
equip skilled professionals such as Electricians, 
Doctors or Engineers with the world’s forefront 
knowledge – enabling them to solve complex 
problems more efficiently.11 Outcomes such as 
these – which create genuine shifts in the quantity 
or quality of output – are more likely to come about 
if technology development is focused on enhancing 
rather than substituting for human capabilities.12 
However, without appropriate decision-making 
frameworks, economic incentive structures and, 
possibly, government regulations, there remains a 
risk that technological development will be focused 
on replacing human work, which could increase 
inequality and unemployment.
their business. Of the nine technologies, three stand 
out as being expected to have the greatest impact. 
Robots and autonomous systems are expected 
to transform 58% of employers’ businesses, 
while energy generation and storage technologies 
are expected to transform 41%. But it is artificial 
intelligence (AI) and information processing 
technologies that are expected to have the biggest 
impact – with 86% of respondents expecting these 
technologies to transform their business by 2030 
(Figure 1.2).
Future of Jobs Report 2023
11


While currently seen as less transformative than 
GenAI, robots and autonomous systems have 
seen steady growth of around 5-7% annually since 
2020.13 In 2023, global average robot density 
reached 162 units per 10,000 employees, double 
the number measured seven years ago.14 Currently 
robot installations are heavily concentrated, 
with 80% of installations occurring in China, 
Japan, United States, the Republic of Korea, and 
Germany.15 This is partially reflected in Future 
of Jobs Survey data, which shows significant 
expectations for the transformative impact of these 
technologies in these five countries (more than 
60% of respondents in each); but much lower 
expectations among employers headquartered in 
Sub-Saharan Africa (39%), Central Asia (45%) and 
the Middle East and North Africa (44%).
0
250,000
300,000
150,000
200,000
50,000
100,000
01/2022
04/2022
07/2022
10/2022
01/2023
04/2023
07/2023
10/2023
01/2024
04/2024
07/2024
10/2024
Enrolments
Source
Coursera analysis.
Demand for generative AI skills
F I G U R E  B 1 . 1
Generative AI enrolment trend 2022-2024.
Total consumer enrolments
Total enterprise enrolments
Enrolment month
Demand for generative AI skills
B O X  1 . 1
Coursera data generated for the Future of Jobs 
Report 2025 reveals significant growth in demand 
for Generative AI training among both individual 
learners and enterprises (Figure B1.1). Demand 
for AI skills has accelerated globally, with India 
and the United States leading in enrolment 
numbers. However, the drivers of demand differ. 
In the United States demand is primarily driven 
by individual users, whereas in India, corporate 
sponsorship plays a significant role in boosting 
GenAI training uptake.
Globally, individual learners on Coursera have 
focused on foundational GenAI skills and 
conceptual topics, such as prompt engineering, 
trustworthy AI practices, and strategic decision-
making around AI. Institution-sponsored 
learners, on the other hand, emphasize practical 
applications within the workplace, including 
leveraging AI tools to enhance efficiency in 
Excel or leveraging the technology to develop 
applications. These trends reflect a tailored 
approach to GenAI learning, where individuals 
focus on foundational knowledge-building while 
organizations prioritize training that delivers 
immediate workplace productivity gains.
In collaboration with Coursera
Future of Jobs Report 2023
12


Economic uncertainty
As of early 2025, the global economic outlook 
appears to be shaped by a combination of 
cautious optimism and persistent uncertainties. 
According to the World Economic Forum’s 
September 2024 Chief Economists Outlook,16 
while there are signs of improving global 
conditions, vulnerabilities persist. Most surveyed 
chief economists (54%) expect economic 
conditions to hold steady in the short term. 
However, among those anticipating change, 
more expect conditions to worsen rather than 
strengthen.
The 2024 economic performance was marked by a 
global decrease in inflation and an unusually resilient 
economy throughout the disinflationary process. 
While easing inflation and looser monetary policy 
offer some optimism, slow growth and political 
volatility keep many countries at risk of economic 
shocks. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) 
projects growth to hold steady at 3.2 percent in 
2025, despite sizable downward growth revisions 
in a few economies, particularly low-income 
developing ones.17
Despite this comparatively steady outlook, price 
pressures persist in many economies. Inflation 
remains particularly high in services – at almost twice 
pre-pandemic levels – and is especially persistent 
in low-income countries. Low-income countries 
are disproportionately affected by rising inflationary 
pressures because of elevated food prices due to 
supply disruptions influenced by climate shocks, 
regional conflicts and geopolitical tensions.18 
Against this backdrop, companies expect economic 
pressures to be among the most transformative 
drivers. Figure 1.1 shows rising cost of living remains 
a top concern, with half of all surveyed employers 
expecting it to drive transformation, making it the 
second-most influential trend. Slower economic 
growth is also a major concern, with 42% of 
respondents expecting it to impact their operations. 
Views on the impact of inflation and economic 
growth notably vary across regions. For example, 
in Sub-Saharan Africa, six in 10 respondents cite 
inflation as a key factor, whereas in Eastern and 
South-Eastern Asia, slower economic growth is 
seen as the more important issue.
Finally, stricter anti-trust and competition 
regulations, though a lower priority overall, are 
expected to impact one in six employers globally
Geoeconomic fragmentation
Intensifying geoeconomic tensions threaten 
trade and supply chains, with lower-income 
economies particularly vulnerable, given that 
essential goods like food and energy comprise a 
larger share of household expenditures in these 
countries.19 Globally, governments are responding 
to geoeconomic challenges by imposing trade 
and investment restrictions, increasing subsidies, 
and adjusting industrial policies. The World Trade 
Organization (WTO) reports that trade restrictions 
doubled between 2020 and 2024, with the value 
of import restrictions reaching nearly 10% of global 
imports in 2024.20 These increasing protectionist 
measures may pose a medium-term risk to global 
economic growth, as they reduce opportunities 
for open innovation and technology transfer – 
factors that historically fuelled growth in emerging 
economies during periods of globalization.21
This shift toward geoeconomic fragmentation 
carries substantial macroeconomic implications, 
with the IMF estimating potential global output 
losses from trade fragmentation ranging from 0.2% 
to 7% of GDP, and losses deepening in scenarios 
of technological decoupling.22 Emerging and 
developing economies are particularly vulnerable to 
such disruptions. For example, Sub-Saharan Africa 
could see long-term welfare losses of approximately 
4% of GDP due to declining global integration.23
The Future of Jobs Survey reveals that around one-
third (34%) of surveyed employers see heightened 
geopolitical tensions and conflicts as a key driver 
of organizational transformation. Meanwhile just 
over one-fifth of surveyed organizations identify 
increased restrictions on trade and investment 
(23%), as well as subsidies and industrial policies 
(21%), as factors reshaping their operations.
Geoeconomic concerns vary by economy. 
Employers in Eastern Asia and Northern America 
identify rising geoeconomic fragmentation as a 
key driver shaping labour markets, with nearly half 
of surveyed employers in these regions citing this 
trend. These regions also show significant concern 
about restrictions on global trade and investment, 
though to a lesser extent than in the Middle East 
and North Africa. Economies with comparatively 
high trade volumes with the United States, China, 
or both – such as Singapore (64%) and the 
Republic of Korea (71%) – tend to expect greater 
transformation from each of these geoeconomic 
trends, as shown in Figure 1.3 below.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
13


On an industry level, as shown in Figure 1.4, 
sectors with a high degree of dependence on 
global supply chains, such as Automotive and 
Aerospace (46%), and Mining and Metals (55%), 
expect industry transformation driven by trade 
restrictions. By contrast, industries with less 
exposure to global markets, such as Education, 
are less focused on this trend, with fewer than 14% 
of surveyed employers seeing trade restrictions 
as disruptive. Mining and Metals, Advanced 
Manufacturing, and Oil and Gas anticipate 
industry transformation stemming from increased 
government subsidies and industrial policies, with, 
respectively, 31%, 33%, and 40% of employers 
across these industries citing these factors; 
whereas more domestic-focused sectors such as 
Accommodation, Food, and Leisure expect minimal 
impact from such policies.
The broader implications of geoeconomic 
fragmentation extend beyond individual business 
strategies to long-term economic stability and 
growth, and limit multilateral cooperation on critical 
issues such as climate change and pandemic 
preparedness.24
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
30
40
50
60
70
80
20
10
Canada
Republic of Korea
Malaysia
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Egypt
Malaysia
Nigeria
Singapore
Thailand
Uzbekistan
Indonesia
Republic of Korea
Malaysia
Singapore
Viet Nam
Geoeconomic trends, by economy
F I G U R E  1 . 3
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Increased restrictions to global 
trade and investment
Increased government subsidies 
and industrial policy 
Increased geopolitical 
division and conﬂicts
Exposure to China and US
Exposure to China
Exposure to US
Exposure to neither China nor US
Share of employers surveyed that expect the stated geoeconomic trend to transform their business.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
14


Green transition
Despite an increasingly complex outlook for global 
climate negotiations, the green transition remains 
a priority for many organizations globally. Nearly 
half of surveyed employers (47%) anticipate the 
ramping up of efforts and investments to reduce 
carbon emissions as a key driver for organizational 
transformation. Similarly, 41% expect that increased 
efforts and investments to adapt to climate change 
will drive significant organizational changes. These 
two trends rank 3rd and 6th, respectively, among 
the drivers of business transformation identified by 
the Future of Jobs Survey. These priorities have 
enabled green jobs to demonstrate resilience in 
recent years, with hiring rates in green sectors 
remaining relatively stable even throughout the 
pandemic-related disruptions of 2020.25 
The Future of Jobs Survey finds that the industrial 
sector – encompassing industries such as 
Automotive and Aerospace, and Mining and 
Metals – anticipates significant organizational 
transformation as companies ramp up efforts 
to decarbonize: 71% of employers in the 
Automotive and Aerospace industry and 69% of 
those in the Mining and Metals industry expect 
carbon emissions reductions to transform their 
organizations. Given the carbon-intensive nature of 
these industries,26 decarbonization will significantly 
transform these industries and their workforces, 
with workers requiring upskilling and reskilling to 
transition to alternative jobs. 
A similar picture emerges across regions. For 
example, in South-Eastern Asia, 72% of employers 
expect climate mitigation efforts to transform their 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
15
Share of employers surveyed (%)
10
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
25
20
15
Accommodation, Food, and Leisure
Advanced manufacturing
Agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing
Automotive and Aerospace
Chemical and advanced materials
Education and training
Electronics
Energy technology and utilities
Financial services and capital markets
Government and public sector
Information and technology services
Infrastructure
Insurance and pensions management
Medical and healthcare services
Mining and Metals
Oil and gas
Production of consumer goods
Professional Services
Real estate
Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
Supply chain and transportation
Telecommunications
Geoeconomic trends, by industry cluster
F I G U R E  1 . 4
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Increased geopolitical division 
and conﬂicts
Increased government subsidies 
and industrial policy 
Increased restrictions to global 
trade and investment 
Share of employers surveyed that expect the stated geoeconomic trend to transform their business.
Mining and Metals
Automotive and Aerospace
Chemical and advanced materials
Oil and gas
Advanced manufacturing
Mining and Metals
Advanced manufacturing
Chemical and advanced materials
Oil and gas
Automotive and Aerospace
Mining and Metals
Chemical and advanced materials
Advanced manufacturing
Oil and gas
Automotive and Aerospace


organizations by 2030, while over half expect 
climate adaptation to do so. By contrast, in Central 
Asia, only 19% of respondents see climate trends 
as relevant to their business activities. 
As countries seek to meet climate goals, questions 
arise regarding whether their workforces are 
equipped with the necessary skills to meet the 
demands of a net-zero future. The shift toward 
sustainable practices will require specialized 
expertise which will incur transition costs, 
particularly for those working in production 
occupations such as assemblers and fabricators.27 
Despite a global 12% increase in workers acquiring 
green skills between 2022 and 2023, demand 
continues to outpace supply, with the number 
of job postings requiring at least one green skill 
rising by nearly 22% over the same period. To fully 
capitalize on opportunities created by the green 
transition and harness them in a way that is fair and 
inclusive, prioritizing green skilling is essential.
Demographic shifts
The world is currently experiencing two fundamental 
demographic shifts: an aging and declining 
working-age population predominantly in higher-
income economies, due to declining birth rates and 
longer life expectancy, and a growing working-age 
population in many lower-income economies, where 
younger populations are progressively entering 
the labour market. In higher-income nations, 
aging populations are increasing dependency 
ratios, potentially putting greater pressure on a 
smaller pool of working-age individuals and raising 
concerns about long-term labour availability. In 
contrast, lower-income economies may benefit from 
a demographic dividend. 
These demographic shifts have a direct impact 
on global labour supply: currently balanced 
between lower-income (49%) and higher-income 
(51%) working-age populations, this distribution 
is expected to shift by 2050, with lower-income 
countries projected to hold 59% of the global 
working-age population.29 Geographies with a 
demographic dividend, such as India and Sub-
Saharan African nations, will supply nearly two-thirds 
of new workforce entrants in the coming years.30 
Findings from the Future of Jobs Survey indicate 
that for 40% of employers worldwide, aging and 
declining working-age populations are driving 
transformation, while 25% are being transformed 
by growing working-age populations. Many high-
income economies experience the combined 
effects of both trends. Certain countries, including 
Australia, Germany and Japan, experience more 
significant effects from declining working-age 
populations. While few companies operating in 
Sub-Saharan African countries expect to see 
transformation due to aging and declining working 
age populations, their expectations regarding the 
impact of growing working-age populations are 
also relatively tempered, illustrating relatively greater 
concern with other macrotrends (Figure 1.5).
Compared to global averages, employers facing 
the effects of aging population are more pessimistic 
about talent availability and expect facing bigger 
challenges in attracting industry talent. More 
encouragingly, with a shrinking labour pool, many 
of these companies (60%) increasingly prioritize 
transitioning current employees into growing roles as 
a key workforce strategy. Some observers have also 
predicted that aging high-income economies with 
shrinking labour forces might increasingly look to 
deeper automation to counterbalance some of these 
demographic trends.31 For example, the Future of 
Jobs Survey finds that employers expecting to be 
impacted by aging populations are more likely to 
accelerate process automation (79% versus 73% 
globally) and advance workforce augmentation (67% 
versus 63% globally) in the next five years.
Conversely, many economies’ actual ability to 
leverage demographic dividends will depend on 
their accompanying success, or otherwise, in 
inclusive job creation. According to the World Bank, 
over the next 10 years, an unprecedented 1.2 
billion young people in emerging economies will 
become working-age adults, while the job market 
in these economies is only expected to create 420 
million additional jobs – risking leaving nearly 800 
million young people in economic uncertainty.32 
Encouragingly, employers responding to the Future 
of Jobs Survey that identify growing working-age 
populations as a driver of transformation plan 
to prioritize reskilling and upskilling, with 92% 
indicating they will be focusing on these strategies 
by 2030. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
16


10
20
30
40
50
70
60
80
0
0
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
5
Lower-middle income
High income
Upper-middle income
United Arab Emirates
Global: 40%
Global: 25%
Bahrain
Singapore
Hong Kong SAR, China
Saudi Arabia
Switzerland
Australia
China
Viet Nam
Israel
Austria
Canada
Kazakhstan
Sweden
Belgium
Estonia
France
Germany
Ireland
Latvia
Norway
Spain
United Kingdom
United States 
of America
Denmark
Greece
ItalyMalaysia
Netherlands
Portugal
Serbia
Slovenia
South Africa
Thailand
Argentina
Czechia
Hungary
Republic of Korea
Lithuania
Türkiye
Uzbekistan
Zimbabwe
Japan
Mexico
Poland
Romania
Brazil
Colombia
Egypt
India
Indonesia
Morocco
Nigeria
Philippines
Tunisia
Dual impact of declining and growing labour forces, by economy and income group, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  1 . 5
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Impacted by ageing and declining working-age popula-
tions (%)
Impacted by growing working-age populations (%)
Share of surveyed employers impacted by growing working-age populations and share of surveyed employers impacted by ageing and 
declining working-age populations.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
17


Jobs outlook 
Technological change, the green transition, 
economic uncertainty, geoeconomic fragmentation 
and demographic shifts are reshaping the labour 
market. This chapter analyses how employers 
expect various kinds of jobs to grow and decline 
in response to these macrotrends and assesses 
the role of each of these trends in contributing to 
labour-market transformation.
Total job growth and loss 
By combining respondents’ job growth and decline 
expectations with hard data on global employment 
collected by the ILO, the Future of Jobs Report 
2025 estimates that, by 2030, on current 
predictions, new job creation and job displacement 
due to macrotrends will represent a combined total 
of 22% of today’s total (formal) jobs. Specifically, 
macrotrend-driven creation of new jobs is estimated 
to amount to 170 million jobs, equivalent to 14% of 
today’s total employment. This growth is expected 
to be offset by the displacement of 92 million 
current jobs, or 8% of total employment, resulting 
in a net growth of 78 million jobs (7% of today’s 
total employment) by 2030, Figure 2.1 illustrates 
the total number of jobs expected to be created 
and displaced due to labour-market transformation 
relative to total employment today.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
2
2.1
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024; 
International Labour Organization, ILOSTAT.
Note
Please refer to the Appendix for the methodology.
Global employment change by 2030
F I G U R E  2 . 1
Jobs destroyed
Jobs stable
Jobs created
One million jobs
In the next ﬁve years, 170 million jobs are projected to be created and 92 million jobs to be displaced, constituting a structural labour 
market churn of 22% of the 1.2 billion formal jobs in the dataset being studied. This amounts to a net employment increase of 7%, or 78 
million jobs.
Growing and declining jobs
The Future of Jobs Survey gathered insights from 
employers on job roles expected to grow, decline 
or remain stable within their organizations over 
the next five years. Respondents were then asked 
to identify the macrotrends and technological 
advancements driving job growth and decline in 
their organizations. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
18


According to the surveyed executives, the fastest-
growing job roles by 2030, in percentage terms, 
tend to be driven by technological developments, 
such as advancements in AI and robotics and 
increasing digital access (See section 2.2). Leading 
the fastest growing jobs list are roles such as Big 
Data Specialist, FinTech Engineers, AI and Machine 
Learning Specialists and Software and Applications 
Developers (Figure 2.2).
Data Entry Clerks
Bank Tellers and Related Clerks
Material-Recording and Stock-Keeping Clerks
Door-To-Door Sales Workers, News and
Street Vendors, and Related Workers
Administrative Assistants and Executive Secretaries
Legal Secretaries
Printing and Related Trades Workers
Legal Ofﬁcials
Postal Service Clerks
Telemarketers
Accounting, Bookkeeping and Payroll Clerks
Transportation Attendants and Conductors
Cashiers and Ticket Clerks
Graphic Designers
Claims Adjusters, Examiners, and Investigators
-40
-20
-40
-20
Big Data Specialists
FinTech Engineers
AI and Machine Learning Specialists
Software and Applications Developers
Security Management Specialists
Data Warehousing Specialists
Autonomous and Electric Vehicle Specialists
UI and UX Designers
Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers
Internet of Things Specialists
Data Analysts and Scientists
Environmental Engineers
Information Security Analysts
Devops Engineer
Renewable Energy Engineers
0
20
100
120
Net growth (%)
40
60
80
0
20
100
120
Net growth (%)
40
60
80
Top fastest growing jobs
Top fastest declining jobs
Fastest-growing and fastest-declining jobs, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  2 . 2
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Top jobs by fastest net growth and net decline, projected by surveyed employers
Future of Jobs Report 2025
19


While technology trends partly contribute to the 
growth of security-related roles such as Security 
Management Specialists, which ranks among the 
top five fastest-growing roles, increased geopolitical 
fragmentation contributes in large part  to the 
growth of this role. Driven by the same combination 
of technology and geoeconomic trends, another 
security-related role, Information Security Analysts, 
also appears among the top 15.
Green and energy-transition roles, including 
Autonomous and Electric Vehicle Specialists, 
Environmental Engineers, and Renewable 
Energy Engineers, also feature within the top 15 
fastest-growing roles. The growth of these roles 
is driven by increased efforts and investments 
to reduce carbon emissions and adapt to 
climate change. The growing adoption of energy 
generation, storage and distribution technologies, 
alongside other technology trends, are additional 
contributing factors. 
By contrast, respondents expect the fastest-
declining roles to include various clerical roles, 
such as Cashiers and Ticket Clerks, alongside 
Administrative Assistants and Executive 
Secretaries, Printing Workers, and Accountants 
and Auditors. Broadening digital access, AI and 
information processing technologies, and robots 
and autonomous systems are the primary drivers 
for this decline. Aging and declining working-age 
populations and slower economic growth also 
contribute to the decline in clerical roles. 
Figure 2.3 provides the percentage growth and 
decline, alongside net growth outlook, for all roles 
featured in the Future of Jobs Survey that meet 
response thresholds.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
20


-50
0
+50
+100
-50
0
+50
+100
Share of current workforce (%)
Share of current workforce (%)
Jobs displaced
Net growth or decline
Jobs created
Projected job creation (blue) and displacement (purple) between 2025 and 2030, as a percentage of total current employment in the 
corresponding job role. The projected net growth or decline for each occupation over the next ﬁve years (diamonds) is calculated by 
subtracting total job displacement from total job creation.
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Note
1Drafters, Engineering Technicians, and Mapping Technicians; 2Farmworkers, Labourers, and Other Agricultural 
Workers; 3Water Transportation Workers, including Ship and Marine Cargo Workers, Controllers, and 
Technicians; 4Sheet and Structural Metal Workers, Moulders and Welders; 5Sales Representatives, Wholesale 
and Manufacturing, Technical and Scientiﬁc Products; 6Manufacturing, Mining, Construction, and Distribution 
Managers; 7Door-To-Door Sales Workers, News and Street Vendors, and Related Workers
Job growth and decline (%), 2025-2030
F I G U R E  2 . 3
Big Data Specialists
FinTech Engineers
AI and Machine Learning Specialists
Software and Applications Developers
Security Management Specialists
Data Warehousing Specialists
Autonomous and Electric Vehicle Specialists
UI and UX Designers
Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers
Internet of Things Specialists
Data Analysts and Scientists
Environmental Engineers
Information Security Analysts
Devops Engineer
Renewable Energy Engineers
Robotics Engineers
Blockchain Developers
Data Engineers
Digital Transformation Specialists
Process Automation Specialists
Sustainability Specialists
Renewable Energy Technicians
System Engineers
Organisational Development Specialists
Online Learning Managers
Digital Marketing and Strategy Specialists
Environmental Protection Professionals
Solar Energy Installation and System Engineers
Database and Network Professionals
Car, Van and Motorcycle Drivers
Full Stack Engineers
Food Scientists and Technologists
ICT Operations and User Support Technicians
1Drafters, Engineering Technicians...
E-commerce Specialists
Strategic Advisors
Social Media Strategist
Hotel and Restaurant Managers
Business Development Professionals
Personal Care Aides
Product Managers
Business Intelligence Analysts
Energy Engineers
Advertising and Public Relations Professionals
Database Architects
2Farmworkers, Labourers,...
Risk Management Specialists
Project Managers
Sales and Marketing Professionals
Social Scientists and Related Workers
Supply Chain and Logistics Specialists
Economists
Management and Organisation Analysts
University and Higher Education Teachers
3Water Transportation Workers
Industrial and Production Engineers
Chefs and Cooks
Electrotechnology Engineers
Nursing Professionals
Media and Communication Workers
Civil Engineers
Regulatory and Government Associate Professionals
Training and Development Specialists
Chemists and Chemical Laboratory Scientists
Mechanical Engineers
Architects and Surveyors
Secondary Education Teachers
Garment and Related Trades Workers
Food Processing and Related Trades Workers
Compliance Ofﬁcers
Financial and Investment Advisers
Health and Education Services Managers
4Sheet and Structural Metal Workers...
Arbitrators, Mediators, and Conciliators
Relationship Managers
Special Education Teachers
Electrical Equipment Installers and Repairers
Construction Laborers
5Sales Representatives, Wholesale...
Building Framers, Finishers, and Related Trades Workers
Sales and Purchasing Agents and Brokers
Chemical Processing Plant Operators
Vocational Education Teachers
Social Work and Counselling Professionals
Primary School and Early Childhood Teachers
6Manufacturing, Mining, Construction...
Food and Beverage Serving Workers
Shop Salespersons
Power Production Plant Operators
Managing Directors and Chief Executives
Human Resources Specialists
General and Operations Managers
Financial Analysts
Mechanics and Machinery Repairers
Heavy Truck and Bus Drivers
Lawyers
Mining, Petroleum and Other Extraction Workers
Survey Researchers
Assembly and Factory Workers
Chemical Engineers
Client Information and Customer Service Workers
Security Guards
Recruiters and Technical Recruiters
Insurance Underwriters, Valuers, and Loss Assessors
Building Caretakers, Cleaners and Housekeepers
Paralegals and Legal Assistants
Business Services and Administration Managers
Statistical, Finance and Insurance Clerks
Accountants and Auditors
Concierges and Hotel Desk Clerks
Credit and Loans Ofﬁcers
Telemarketers
Legal Secretaries
Legal ofﬁcials
Claims Adjusters, Examiners, and Investigators
Graphic Designers
7Door-To-Door Sales Workers...
Transportation Attendants and Conductors
Material-Recording and Stock-Keeping Clerks
Accounting,  Bookkeeping and Payroll Clerks
Printing and Related Trades Workers
Administrative Assistants and Executive Secretaries
Cashiers and Ticket Clerks
Data Entry Clerks
Bank Tellers and Related Clerks
Postal Service Clerks
Future of Jobs Report 2025
21


To approximate the total impact of job growth 
and decline, this report combines the job outlook 
expectations of surveyed employers with estimates 
of the total number of workers in the corresponding 
roles, based on ILO employment data. However, the 
Future of Jobs data set only provides information 
on roles for which survey data availability meets a 
minimum coverage threshold, and corresponds to 
1.18 billion workers in total, which is a subset of 
the ILO’s total employment data. The conclusions 
derived for this subset should not be treated as 
comprehensive, but rather as providing insights on 
selected segments of the global workforce.
Figure 2.4 shows the 15 largest net growth and 
decline job roles in absolute numbers. The highest 
growth in absolute numbers of jobs is driven by 
roles that make up the core of many economies. 
Farmworkers top the list of the largest growing job 
roles in the next five years and are expected to 
see 35 million more jobs by 2030. Green transition 
trends, including increased efforts and investments 
to reduce carbon emissions and adapt to climate 
change, are the driving forces behind this job 
growth. Broadening digital access and rising cost 
of living also contribute to the growth of this job 
role, which currently employs more than 200 million 
workers worldwide. 
Delivery Drivers, Building Construction Workers, 
Salespersons and Food Processing Workers are 
also among the largest-growing job types in the 
next five years. While technology is impacting 
growth in almost all occupations, demographic 
trends and economic trends also contribute to the 
projected net increase in these job roles. 
Care jobs, including Nursing Professionals, Social 
Work and Counselling Professionals, and Personal 
Care Aides are expected to see significant growth 
over the next five years, driven by demographic 
trends, especially aging populations. Increased 
focus on labour and social issues is also identified 
as a contributing factor. 
Education-related roles such as University and 
Higher Education Teachers and Secondary 
Education Teachers are also predicted to be among 
the biggest job creators in absolute terms over the 
next five years globally. Broadening digital access 
and growing working-age populations are the top 
two contributing drivers of this job growth, while 
increased focus on labour and social issues is seen 
as an additional factor.
Additionally, Software and Applications Developers, 
General and Operations Managers, and Project 
Managers, are among the job categories driving the 
most net job growth.
Conversely, in parallel to the fastest-declining job 
roles, Clerical and Secretarial Workers are among 
the job categories predicted to see the largest net 
job decline in absolute terms (Figure 2.5).
Section 2.2 further analyses the impact of each of 
the five identified labour-market macrotrends on 
growing and declining jobs. However, there is also 
a group of large and growing jobs that are driven by 
many trends in combination. This includes Building 
Framers, Finishers, and Related Trades Workers; 
Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers; Car, Van 
and Motorcycle Drivers; General and Operations 
Managers; and Social Work and Counselling 
Professionals. For these jobs, it is the broad sweep 
of transformative forces, rather than one or two 
specific labour-market drivers, which is generating 
growth expectations.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
22


Building Caretakers, Cleaners and Housekeepers
Administrative Assistants and Executive Secretaries
Transportation Attendants and Conductors
Bank Tellers and Related Clerks
Printing and Related Trades Workers
Business Services and Administration Managers
Accounting, Bookkeeping and Payroll Clerks
Graphic Designers
Cashiers and Ticket Clerks
Claims Adjusters, Examiners, and Investigators
Accountants and Auditors
Security Guards
Material-Recording and Stock-Keeping Clerks
Data Entry Clerks
Client Information and Customer Service Workers
-15
Farmworkers, Labourers, and Other Agricultural Workers
Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers
Software and Applications Developers
Building Framers, Finishers, and Related Trades Workers
Shop Salespersons
Food Processing and Related Trades Workers
Car, Van and Motorcycle Drivers
Nursing Professionals
Food and Beverage Serving Workers
General and Operations Managers
Social Work and Counselling Professionals
Project Managers
University and Higher Education Teachers
Secondary Education Teachers
Personal Care Aides
Millions of jobs
Millions of jobs
15
20
25
30
35
10
5
-5
-10
0
Top largest growing jobs
Top largest declining jobs
-15
15
20
25
30
35
10
5
-5
-10
0
Largest growing and declining jobs, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  2 . 4
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024; 
International Labour Organization, ILOSTAT.
Top jobs, ordered by largest net job growth and decline, in absolute terms, calculated based on ILO occupation employment statistics and 
expected net growth  reported by employers surveyed.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
23


15 largest growing jobs
15 largest declining jobs
Millions of jobs
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024; 
International Labour Organization, ILOSTAT.
Job growth and decline (number of employees), 2025-2030
F I G U R E  2 . 5
Projected job creation (blue) and displacement (purple) between 2025 and 2030, in absolute number of jobs, estimated by surveyed 
employers and calculated based on ILO occupational employment statistics. Projected net number of jobs created or displaced for each 
occupation over the next ﬁve years (diamonds) is calculated by subtracting total job displacement from total job creation.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
24


Expected impact of macrotrends on employment
The remainder of this chapter discusses how Future 
of Jobs Survey respondents expect each of the five 
macrotrends driving labour market transformation – 
technological change, geoeconomic fragmentation, 
green transition, demographic shifts and economic 
uncertainty – to influence job growth and decline by 
2030 (see Figure 2.6).
Technological change
Technology is predicted to be the most  divergent 
driver of labour-market change, with broadening 
digital access expected to both create and displace 
more jobs than any other macrotrend (19 million 
and 9 million, respectively). Meanwhile, trends 
in AI and information processing technology 
are expected to create 11 million jobs, while 
simultaneously displacing 9 million others, more 
than any other technology trend. Robotics and 
autonomous systems are expected to be the 
largest net job displacer, with a net decline of 5 
million jobs. 
These three trends – broadening digital access, 
advancements in AI and information processing, 
and robotics and autonomous systems 
technologies – also feature prominently as drivers 
of the fastest growing and declining jobs. In fact, 
2.2
Expected impact of macrotrends and technology trends on jobs, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  2 . 6
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024; 
International Labour Organization, ILOSTAT.
Jobs displaced
Net effect
Jobs created
9.9M
9.1M
5.5M
5.2M
3.8M
3.1M
2.8M
1.8M
1.3M
1.0M
0.9M
0.9M
0.8M
0.7M
0.6M
0.3M
0.2M
0.1M
0.1M
-1.6M
-4.8M
Projected job creation attributed to each trend (blue) and projected job displacement attributed to each trend (purple) between 2025 and 
2030, based on the job growth and decline attribution expectations of surveyed employers and ILO employment ﬁgures by occupation. 
The projected net number of jobs created or destroyed attributed to each trend in the next ﬁve years (diamonds) is calculated by 
subtracting the total number of declining jobs from the total number of growing jobs. The Appendix provides additional details and the data 
behind this ﬁgure.
Broadening digital access
Growing working-age populations
Increased efforts and investments 
to adapt to climate change
Increased focus on labour and social issues
Ageing and declining working-age populations
Increased efforts and investments
 to reduce carbon emissions
Increased government subsidies and industrial policy
AI and information processing technologies 
(big data, VR, AR etc.)
Increased restrictions to global trade and investment
Energy generation, storage and distribution
Increased geopolitical division and conﬂicts
New materials and composites
Rising cost of living, higher prices or inﬂation
Stricter anti-trust and competition regulations
Semiconductors and computing technologies
Quantum and encryption
Biotechnology and gene technologies
Sensing, laser and optical technologies
Satellites and space technologies
Slower economic growth
Robots and autonomous systems
Future of Jobs Report 2025
25


they are among the top drivers of growth for the 10 
fastest-growing jobs: AI and information processing 
technologies are among the top three drivers of 
growth for all 10 of these jobs; whereas broadening 
digital access is a top three driver for nine out 
of these 10 (all except Autonomous and Electric 
Vehicle Specialists); and robotics and autonomous 
systems technologies for seven out of these 10 
(all except Security Management Specialists, UI 
and UX Designers, and Light Truck or Delivery 
Services Drivers). In addition, of the 10 fastest- and 
10 largest-declining roles, only two (Printing and 
Related Trades Workers, and Building Caretakers, 
Cleaners and Housekeepers) feature other trends 
among their top three drivers of job decline.
By contrast, the largest-growth jobs are 
influenced by a broader range of macrotrends. 
The three technology-based trends stand out 
as expected growth drivers only for light truck 
and delivery services drivers, software and 
applications developers, and nursing professionals. 
This projected growth in demand for nursing 
professionals is also driven by aging and declining 
working-age populations, further explored in the 
demographic shifts section of this chapter.
The presence of both Graphic Designers and Legal 
Secretaries just outside the top 10 fastest-declining 
job roles, a first-time prediction not seen in previous 
editions of the Future of Jobs Report, may illustrate 
GenAI’s increasing capacity to perform knowledge 
work. Job decline in both roles is seen as driven by 
both AI and information processing technologies 
as well as by broadening digital access. This is a 
major change from the report’s 2023 edition, when 
Graphic Designers were considered a moderately 
growing job and Legal Secretaries did not feature in 
the expected job growth/decline list. 
The Shifting human-machine frontier: 
automation versus augmentation
The interplay between humans, machines and 
algorithms is redefining job roles across industries. 
Automation is expected to drive changes in 
people’s ways of working, with the proportional 
share of tasks performed solely or predominantly 
by humans expected to decline as technology 
becomes more versatile. Future of Jobs Survey 
respondents estimate that, today, 47% of work 
tasks are performed mainly by humans alone, with 
22% performed mainly by technology (machines 
and algorithms), and 30% completed by a 
combination of both. By 2030, employers expect 
these proportions to be nearly evenly split across 
these three categories/approaches (Figure 2.7).
Globally, the expected reduction in the proportion 
of work tasks performed by humans is driven 
primarily by increased automation. Of the nearly 
15 percentage point reduction in the proportion 
of total work tasks delivered by humans in 
2030 versus 2025, nearly 82% is attributable to 
advancing automation, while 19% is projected 
to derive from expanded human-machine 
collaboration (Figure 2.8).
People
Combination
Technology
30%
22%
47%
34%
33%
33%
0
Now
100
75
50
25
Share of tasks (%)
By 2030
The shifting human-machine frontier: automation versus augmentation, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  2 . 7
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of total work tasks expected to be delivered predominantly by human workers, by technology (machines and algorithms), or by a 
combination of both.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
26


Importantly, this analysis only compares the 
2025 and 2030 proportions of total task delivery 
attributable to human employees, technology or 
collaboration between the two, respectively, and 
does not consider the potential change in the 
absolute amount of work tasks (output) getting 
done. In other words, both machines and humans 
might be significantly more productive in 2030 
– performing more or higher value tasks in the 
same or less amount of time than it would have 
taken them to do so in 2025 – so any concern 
about humans “running out of things to do” due to 
automation would be misplaced. 
However, a potentially more complex question 
raised by these projections concerns the on-going 
share of total economic value creation participated 
in by human workers: If an increasing amount of 
a firm’s total output and income is derived from 
advanced machines and proprietary algorithms, to 
what extent will human workers be able to share 
in this prosperity?33 It is in this context that the 
relevance of the third category/approach, human-
machine collaboration (or “augmentation”) should 
be highlighted: technology could be designed 
and developed in a way that complements and 
enhances, rather than displaces, human work; 
and, as discussed further in the next chapter (Box 
3.1), talent development, reskilling and upskilling 
strategies may be designed and delivered in a 
way to enable and optimize human-machine 
collaboration.34 It is the investment decisions and 
policy choices made today that will shape these 
outcomes in the coming years.35 
At an industry level, while all sectors are expected 
to see a reduction in the proportion of work tasks 
performed by humans alone by 2030, they differ 
in the share of this reduction that is projected to 
be attributable to automation versus augmentation 
and human-machine collaboration (Figure 2.9). 
Insurance and Pensions Management and 
Telecommunications are leading the automation 
trend – with more than 95% of human standalone 
task share reduction in both sectors expected to 
derive from deeper automation. By contrast, nearly 
half of the proportional reduction in work tasks done 
by humans alone in the Medical and Healthcare 
Services and Government and Public sectors 
are instead expected to be driven by increased 
augmentation and human-machine collaboration. 
In four sectors – Oil and Gas, Chemicals and 
Advanced Materials, Financial Services and Capital 
Markets, and Electronics – automation is projected 
not only to reduce the proportion of total work 
tasks predominantly done today standalone by 
humans, but even to reduce the share of total 
work tasks currently delivered through human-
machine collaboration (resulting in calculated 
“automation shares” of more than 100%, as 
depicted in Figure 2.9).
47%
33%
Automation
81.5%
0
Now
100
75
50
25
By 2030
Expected shift in the human share of work task delivery in total ﬁrm output driven by 
automation versus augmentation, 2025-2030, global average
F I G U R E  2 . 8
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Change in proportion of human-performed tasks attributable to increasing automation.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
27


Agriculture, forestry, and 
ﬁshing
Telecommunications
Insurance and pensions 
management
93%
96%
97%
35
51
28
40
25
41
Expected shift in the human share of work task delivery in total ﬁrm output driven by 
automation versus augmentation, 2025-2030, by industry
F I G U R E  2 . 9
Change in proportion of human-performed tasks attributable to increasing automation.
Medical and healthcare 
services
Government and public 
sector
Advanced manufacturing
Energy technology and 
utilities
Retail and wholesale of 
consumer goods
34
50
34
53
31
43
32
43
42
56
Professional services
Infrastructure
Education and training
Real estate
Acommodation, food, and 
leisure
Information and technology 
services
Mining and metals
Production of consumer 
goods
Supply chain and 
transportation
Automotive and aerospace
54%
59%
63%
65%
66%
71%
74%
76%
78%
80%
84%
85%
87%
89%
54%
Automation (%)
31
52
36
51
39
57
42
64
43
55
26
41
28
42
32
45
34
49
31
46
Electronics
Financial services and 
capital markets
25
40
28
44
100%
100%
Future of Jobs Report 2025
28


Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of tasks done predominantly by people today
Share of tasks done predominantly by people by 2030
Chemical and advanced 
materials
Oil and gas
113%
146%
28
38
26
36
Geoeconomic fragmentation
The Future of Jobs Survey asked employers about 
the impacts of three key geoeconomic trends: 
increased government subsidies and industrial 
policy; increased geopolitical division and conflicts; 
and increased restrictions to global trade and 
investment. On average, respondents expect these 
trends to be net job creators. Although projected 
to be three of the four lowest net job-creating 
macrotrends – above only slower economic 
growth – these estimates still equate to 5 million 
net additional jobs by 2030, most prominently in 
logistics, security and strategy roles. 
Increased government subsidies and industrial 
policy are expected to drive increased demand 
for Business Intelligence Analysts and Business 
Development Professionals. Increased restrictions 
to global trade and investment are also predicted 
to drive growth in these roles, as well as in 
Strategic Advisors and Supply Chain and Logistics 
specialists. Increased geopolitical division and 
conflicts, meanwhile, are projected to drive growth 
in all of the aforementioned roles, in addition 
to Information Security Analysts and Security 
Management Specialists. 
The Future of Jobs Survey also asked respondents 
whether they expected to offshore parts of their 
workforce, or move operations closer to home 
through reshoring, nearshoring, or friendshoring. 
An analysis of the responses to these questions for 
the subset of employers who expect geoeconomic 
trends to affect their business provides insight 
into how these trends affect workforce decisions. 
Table 2.1 shows the share of employers who 
expect each geoeconomic trend to transform 
their business that additionally also expect to 
offshore or re-shore significant segments of their 
workforce. All three geoeconomic trends analysed 
appear to drive more re-shoring, with respondents 
who expect their business to be transformed 
by increasing restrictions to global trade and 
investment 50% more likely to plan to reshore 
than the global average employer. Employers who 
expect government subsidies and industrial policy 
to transform their business, however, are almost as 
likely to plan to offshore as they are to reshore
Impact of geoeconomic trends on off-shoring and re-shoring
TA B L E  2 . 1
Share of employers who expect the specified trend to transform their business who plan to ‘off-shore’ or ‘re-shore’ significant segments of 
their workforce.
Off-shore
Re-shoring
Global Average
8.3
9.5
Increased government subsidies and industrial policy 
11.2
12.4
Increased geopolitical division and conflicts
9.3
13.2
Increased restrictions to global trade and investment 
8.7
14.5
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
29


Green transition
Climate change adaptation is expected to be the 
third-largest contributor to net growth in global 
jobs by 2030, projected to contribute an additional 
5 million net jobs, while climate-change mitigation 
comes in 6th with an additional 3 million net 
jobs. Trends in energy generation, storage and 
distribution, meanwhile, are expected to create an 
additional 1 million net jobs – the second-largest 
technology-based contribution to net job growth 
(after trends in AI and information processing 
technology).
Expectations around climate-change adaptation 
and mitigation trends are pushing Environmental 
Engineers and Renewable Energy Engineers into 
the top 15 fastest-growing jobs, as well as driving 
growth in roles such as Sustainability Specialists 
and Renewable Energy Technicians. This is 
corroborated by evidence that “green hiring” has 
consistently outperformed overall labour-market 
hiring trends in recent years (Box 2.1).   
Both green transition-related macrotrends are also 
expected to drive some of the largest labour-market 
transformation, in absolute terms, in the global 
economy. This includes being the largest drivers 
of both job growth and decline in Farmworkers, 
Labourers, and Other Agricultural Workers as well 
as being among the strongest drivers of net job 
growth for Building Framers, Finishers and Related 
Trades Workers.
Green hiring rates
B O X  2 . 1
LinkedIn data, generated up to July 2024 for 
the Future of Jobs Report 2025, assesses the 
progression of green hiring rates compared to 
overall hiring rates. By comparing the share of 
LinkedIn members with green skills being hired 
with the overall hiring rate, it is possible to assess 
differences in employment outcomes between 
these two groups.
Figure B2.1 shows that LinkedIn members with 
green skills are being hired at a significantly 
higher rate than other members. Despite a dip 
in green hiring throughout 2021 and early 2022, 
green hiring has consistently outperformed the 
overall hiring, and this outperformance has been 
consistently getting larger since its low point of 
May 2022.
In collaboration with LinkedIn
0
50
60
30
40
10
20
01/2021
04/2021
07/2021
10/2021
01/2022
04/2022
07/2022
10/2022
01/2024
04/2024
07/2024
01/2023
04/2023
07/2023
10/2023
Hiring rate (%)
Source
LinkedIn analysis. 
Green hiring rates
F I G U R E  B 2 . 1
Outperformance in hiring rate for LinkedIn members with green skills versus all LinkedIn members, percent, January 2021 to July 2024
Month
Future of Jobs Report 2025
30


Demographic shifts
Growing working-age populations are the 
macrotrend expected to be the second-biggest 
driver of global net job creation – with 9 million 
net additional jobs by 2030 – surpassed only by 
broadening digital access. Aging and declining 
working-age populations, meanwhile, are 
simultaneously expected to be, overall, the third-
largest driver of job creation (11 million additional 
jobs) as well the primary factor in a global reduction 
in 7 million jobs, making this trend the 5th largest 
driver of net job creation, on balance, resulting in 4 
million net additional jobs by 2030.
These two demographic trends are notably among 
the top three drivers of growth in roles for Assembly 
and Factory Workers and Vocational Education 
Teachers. Aging and declining working-age 
populations also appear to drive growth in roles for 
Nurses, Sales and Hospitality professionals as well 
as being among the largest drivers of growth for 
shop salespersons, wholesale and manufacturing 
sales representatives, food and beverage serving 
workers and food processing and related trades 
workers. Growing working age populations, 
meanwhile, are expected to be a key driver of 
growth for Education roles, including University 
and Higher Education Teachers and Secondary 
Education Teachers.
Economic uncertainty
Slower economic growth is the only macrotrend 
that Future of Jobs Survey respondents expect 
to drive more job destruction (3 million jobs) than 
creation (2 million jobs), while rising cost of living 
and higher prices are expected to drive job creation 
of 4 million jobs and displacement of 3 million jobs 
by 2030. 
These two trends are both significant contributors 
to an expected decline in roles for Building 
Caretakers, Cleaners, and Housekeepers, while 
slower economic growth is also among the top 
contributors to job decline in Business Services and 
Administration Managers, General and Operations 
Managers, and Sales and Marketing Professionals.
However, slower economic growth is also 
projected to be a top driver for growth in roles 
such as Business Development Professionals 
and Sales Representatives. Growth in roles driven 
by increasing cost of living is concentrated in 
jobs associated with finding ways of increasing 
efficiency, such as AI and Machine Learning 
Specialists, Business Development Professionals, 
and Supply Chain and Logistics Specialists.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
31


Skills outlook 
This chapter presents the results of the Future of 
Jobs Survey concerning skills, as classified by the 
World Economic Forum’s Global Skills Taxonomy.36 
It begins by analysing respondents’ expectations 
of skill disruption by 2030, as well as the skills 
currently required for work and whether employers 
anticipate these skills will increase or decrease in 
importance over the next five years. The chapter 
then assesses the skills expected to become core 
skills by 2030, based on their current significance 
and anticipated evolution. It also contrasts the skills 
required for growing and declining jobs, revealing 
windows of opportunity for enabling dynamic job 
transitions. Finally, it offers an overview of the key 
drivers of skill transformation and concludes with an 
exploration of anticipated training needs and trends.
Expected disruptions to skills
When the Future of Jobs Report was first published 
in 2016, surveyed employers expected that 35% 
of workers’ skills would face disruption in the 
coming years. The COVID-19 pandemic, along with 
rapid advancements in frontier technologies, led 
to significant disruptions in working life and skills, 
prompting respondents to predict high levels of 
skills instability in subsequent editions of the report. 
The post-pandemic period, however, has seen 
employers adapt to these changes. The accelerated 
adoption of digital tools, remote work solutions, and 
advanced technologies such as machine learning 
and generative AI provided companies with relevant 
experience to better understand the critical skills 
required to navigate rapid technological change. 
Despite current uncertainty around the long-term 
impact of generative AI, the expected ongoing pace 
of disruption of skills has begun to stabilize, albeit 
at a high level. Overall, employers expect 39% 
of workers’ core skills to change by 2030 (Figure 
3.1). While this represents significant ongoing 
skill disruption, it is down from 44% in 2023. One 
element contributing to this finding may be a 
growing focus on continuous learning, upskilling and 
reskilling programmes, enabling companies to better 
anticipate and manage future skill requirements. This 
is reflected in an increasing share of the workforce 
(50%) having completing training as part of long-term 
learning strategies compared to 2023 (41%) – a 
finding that is consistent across almost all industries. 
This is discussed further in section 3.3.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
3
3.1
Future of Jobs Report 2025
32


44%
56%
57%
43%
42%
58%
35%
65%
Core skills which will change in the next ﬁve years
Core skills which will remain the same in the next ﬁve years
61%
39%
0
2016
100
75
50
25
Share of worker skill sets (%)
Survey year
2018
2020
2023
2025
Disruptions to skills
F I G U R E  3 . 1
Source
World Economic Forum Future of Jobs Surveys 2016, 2018, 
2020, 2022 and 2024. 
Note
Values reported are the mean skill stability percentages estimated by employers surveyed in 
each edition of the survey.
Evolution in the share of workers' core skills expected to change and to remain the same within the next ﬁve years, 2016-2025.
However, the extent of skills disruption is not 
uniform across economies and industries. Lower-
middle and upper middle-income economies and 
those affected by conflict tend to expect greater 
disruption in workers’ skills, while high-income 
economies foresee less instability (Figure 3.2).
Future of Jobs Report 2025
33


Share of skills expected to change (%)
Disruption to skills 2025-2030, by economy
F I G U R E  3 . 2
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Note
Values reported are the mean skill stability percentages estimated by organizations surveyed.
Share of workers' core skills that will change in the next ﬁve years
Egypt
Zimbabwe
48%
48%
44%
Portugal
0
20
30
40
50
10
Colombia
Türkiye
Israel
Bahrain
Argentina
Switzerland
Malaysia
United Arab Emirates
Nigeria
Kazakhstan
Saudi Arabia
Mexico
Greece
All
Serbia
Austria
Philippines
Italy
Korea, Republic of
Canada
India
Viet Nam
Latvia
Morocco
Ireland
Norway
Spain
Estonia
Romania
Slovenia
Brazil
South Africa
Indonesia
Uzbekistan
Hungary
Singapore
Australia
Thailand
Tunisia
Hong Kong SAR, China
United States of America
Belgium
Lithuania
Sweden
Japan
Germany
China
France
United Kingdom
Poland
Czechia
Netherlands
Denmark
44%
44%
43%
42%
42%
41%
41%
41%
41%
40%
40%
40%
39%
39%
39%
38%
38%
38%
38%
38%
38%
37%
37%
37%
37%
37%
37%
37%
37%
37%
37%
36%
36%
36%
36%
36%
35%
35%
35%
35%
35%
35%
35%
34%
34%
34%
33%
33%
33%
31%
30%
30%
28%
Future of Jobs Report 2025
34


Core skills
Figure 3.3 shows the core skills Future of Jobs 
Survey respondents identify as required by workers 
today. As in the two previous editions of this 
report, analytical thinking remains the top core skill 
for employers, with seven out of 10 companies 
considering it as essential. This is followed by 
resilience, flexibility and agility, along with leadership 
and social influence, underscoring the critical 
role of adaptability and collaboration alongside 
cognitive skills. Creative thinking and motivation and 
self-awareness rank fourth and fifth, respectively. 
This combination of cognitive, self-efficacy and 
interpersonal skills within the top five emphasizes 
the importance ascribed by respondents to having 
an agile, innovative and collaborative workforce, 
where both problem-solving abilities and personal 
resilience are critical for success.
The top 10 core skills are complemented by 
technological literacy, empathy and active listening, 
curiosity and lifelong learning, talent management, 
and service orientation and customer service. 
Skills that reflect the important role of technical 
proficiency, strong interpersonal abilities, emotional 
intelligence, and a commitment to continuous 
learning demonstrate respondents’ expectation that 
workers must balance hard and soft skills to thrive 
in today’s work environments.
While the core skill sets are relatively consistent 
across broader industries and geographical regions, 
there are notable distinctions within specific sectors 
and geographies. For instance, the Insurance 
and Pensions Management industry places a 
significantly higher value on curiosity and lifelong 
learning, with 83% of respondents identifying it as a 
core skill compared to the global average of 50%. 
Resilience, flexibility and agility are also considered 
as especially crucial in this sector, with 94% of 
respondents emphasizing their importance versus a 
global average of 67%.
Working with others
Engagement skills
Cognitive skills
Physical abilities
Ethics
Technology skills
Self-efﬁcacy
Management skills
0
20
100
40
60
80
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Note
The Future of Jobs Survey uses the World Economic Forum's Global Skills Taxonomy.
Core skills in 2025
F I G U R E  3 . 3
Share of employers who consider the stated skills to be core skills for their workforce.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
Share of employers surveyed (%)
Analytical thinking
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Creative thinking
Motivation and self-awareness
Technological literacy
Empathy and active listening
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Talent management
Service orientation and customer service
AI and big data
Systems thinking
Resource management and operations
Dependability and attention to detail
Quality control
Teaching and mentoring
Networks and cybersecurity
Design and user experience
Multi-lingualism
Marketing and media
Reading, writing and mathematics
Environmental stewardship
Programming
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Global citizenship
Sensory-processing abilities
69%
67%
61%
57%
52%
51%
50%
50%
47%
47%
45%
42%
41%
37%
35%
26%
25%
25%
23%
21%
21%
20%
17%
14%
13%
6%
Future of Jobs Report 2025
35


The Mining and Metals industry distinguishes 
itself with a strong focus on environmental 
stewardship, as 50% of respondents view it as 
a core skill – 2.5 times the global average. This 
emphasis on environmental skills is also evident 
in the Government and Public Sector, where it is 
double the global average. Additionally, both the 
Mining and Metals and Advanced Manufacturing 
industries place higher importance on manual 
dexterity, endurance and precision skills compared 
to other sectors, with roughly 25% of respondents 
identifying this as a core skill.
The Telecommunications industry stands out 
for prioritizing design and user experience, 
networks and cybersecurity, and programming 
skills, with twice the global average of 
respondents considering these as core skills 
in their organizations. Similarly, the Information 
and Technology Services sector places greater 
emphasis on programming skills.
Compared to the 2023 edition of this report, 
some significant shifts in core skills have emerged. 
Leadership and social influence, AI and big data, 
talent management, and service orientation and 
customer service have all seen marked increases 
in relevance. Conversely, skills like dependability, 
attention to detail, and quality control have 
decreased in importance for organizations 
compared to the 2023 data.
Overall, leadership and social influence, resilience, 
flexibility and agility, and AI and big data have seen 
the most substantial increase in importance, with 
22, 17, and 17 percentage-point rises, respectively, 
in the share of respondents identifying them as core 
skills compared to the 2023 edition of the report.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
36


100
Share of employers surveyed (%)
40
60
80
100
20
20
40
0
60
80
Skills on the rise, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  3 . 4
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Note
The Future of Jobs Survey uses the World Economic Forum's Global Skills Taxonomy.
Share of employers that consider skills to be increasing, decreasing, or remaining stable in importance. Skills are ranked based on net 
increase, which is the difference between the share of employers that consider a skill category to be increasing in use and those that 
consider it to be decreasing in use.
Decreasing use
Increasing use
Stable use
87
70
68
66
66
61
58
58
55
53
51
47
46
45
41
30
27
25
24
20
19
16
13
12
-4
-24
Net increase
AI and big data
Networks and cybersecurity
Technological literacy
Creative thinking
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Talent management
Analytical thinking
Environmental stewardship
Systems thinking
Motivation and self-awareness
Empathy and active listening
Design and user experience
Service orientation and customer service
Teaching and mentoring
Programming
Marketing and media
Resource management and operations
Quality control
Global citizenship
Multi-lingualism
Sensory-processing abilities
Dependability and attention to detail
Reading, writing and mathematics
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Skill evolution
According to employer expectations for the 
evolution of skills in the next five years, as shown in 
Figure 3.4, technological skills are projected to grow 
in importance more rapidly than any other type of 
skills. Among these, AI and big data top the list 
as the fastest-growing skills, followed closely by 
networks and cybersecurity and technological 
literacy. Complementing these technological skills, 
creative thinking and two socio-emotional attitudes 
– resilience, flexibility, and agility, along with 
curiosity and lifelong learning – are also seen as 
rising in importance. 
Also ranking among the top 10 skills on the rise are 
leadership and social influence, talent management, 
analytical thinking, and environmental stewardship. 
These skills highlight the need for workers who can 
lead teams, manage talent effectively and adapt to 
sustainability and green transitions in an increasingly 
complex and interconnected world. 
At the other end of the spectrum, respondents 
identified sensory-processing abilities; reading, 
writing and mathematics; dependability and 
attention to detail; quality control; and global 
citizenship as among the most stable skills. 
However, a small net decline is anticipated in 
reading, writing, and mathematics. Manual 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
37


dexterity, endurance, and precision stands out 
with a notable anticipated net decline, with 24% 
of respondents foreseeing a decrease in its 
importance. The declining relevance of physical 
abilities has been a trend in previous Future of Jobs 
Reports, but this is the first time it has seen a net 
negative decline. 
Comparisons with previous editions of the Future of 
Jobs Survey reveal a notable shift in skill demands, 
with technology skills such as AI and big data, 
networks and cybersecurity, and environmental 
stewardship showing the largest net increase in the 
share of respondents identifying them as critical for 
the next five years. Conversely, skills like reading, 
writing, and mathematics; manual dexterity, 
endurance, and precision; and dependability and 
attention to detail have seen the largest decline in 
projected future demand. 
Figure 3.5 illustrates industry-specific variations in 
the evolving importance of skills. AI and big data are 
predicted to see significant growth across nearly 
all sectors. In the top 10 industries, over 90% of 
respondents expect this skill to increase in use. The 
lowest growth shares are observed in Agriculture, 
Forestry, and Fishing (70%) and Accommodation, 
Food, and lLisure industries (69%). This highlights 
a broad-based but uneven embrace of advanced 
technological skills across industries. 
Resilience, flexibility and agility are growing in 
demand more quickly in the Agriculture, Forestry, 
and Fishing; Telecommunications; and Information 
and Technology Services sectors. The Insurance 
and Pensions Management industry stands out 
as the industry forecasting the fastest growth 
in importance in creative thinking skills. This 
industry, along with Education and Training and 
Telecommunications forecast fast growth in the 
importance of curiosity and lifelong learning. 
Increasing skill demands in environmental 
stewardship skills are particularly evident in the Oil 
and Gas and Chemical and Advanced Materials 
industries. 
Furthermore, the net decline in the demand for 
manual dexterity, endurance, and precision skills is 
observed across sectors, with the most significant 
decreases in Energy Technology and Utilities, 
Chemicals and Advanced Materials, and Information 
Technology Services, each experiencing declines 
exceeding 39%. By contrast, the Accommodation, 
Food, and Leisure sector and the Automotive and 
Aerospace industries show the smallest declines, 
with net reductions below 14%.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
38


F I G U R E  3 . 5
Share of employers considering skills within the corresponding skill category to be growing in importance for their workforce from 2025 to 
2030, as opposed to having stable or declining importance. The top 10 industries out of the 22 studied in this report are selected in each 
case and ranked. 
86%
79%
76%
76%
75%
75%
73%
69%
69%
69%
Creative thinking
1. Insurance and pensions management
2. Education and training
3. Medical and healthcare services
4. Advanced manufacturing
5. Telecommunications
6. Information and technology services
7. Real estate
8. Professional services
9. Supply chain and transportation
10.Production of consumer goods
79%
77%
75%
68%
68%
68%
67%
67%
64%
64%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
1. Education and training
2. Insurance and pensions management
3. Telecommunications
4. Real estate
5. Information and technology services
6. Automotive and aerospace
7. Energy technology and utilities
8. Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
9. Oil and gas
10.Medical and healthcare services
82%
81%
79%
78%
78%
78%
76%
75%
74%
74%
Networks and cybersecurity
1. Financial services and capital markets
2. Insurance and pensions management
3. Energy technology and utilities
4. Medical and healthcare services
5. Automotive and aerospace
6. Government and public sector
7. Supply chain and transportation
8. Telecommunications
9. Advanced manufacturing
10.Information and technology services
83%
79%
78%
73%
72%
71%
71%
69%
68%
68%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
1. Agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing
2. Telecommunications
3. Information and technology services
4. Production of consumer goods
5. Insurance and pensions management
6. Automotive and aerospace
7. Advanced manufacturing
8. Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
9. Financial services and capital markets
10.Electronics
Top 10 industries for increasing skill requirements, 2025-2030
100%
100%
98%
97%
97%
95%
94%
92%
90%
90%
AI and big data
1. Automotive and aerospace
2. Telecommunications
3. Professional services
4. Information and technology services
5. Insurance and pensions management
6. Financial services and capital markets
7. Supply chain and transportation
8. Medical and healthcare services
9. Energy technology and utilities
10.Government and public sector
84%
84%
81%
81%
77%
76%
76%
75%
73%
72%
Technological literacy
1. Automotive and aerospace
2. Financial services and capital markets
3. Medical and healthcare services
4. Insurance and pensions management
5. Supply chain and transportation
6. Education and training
7. Oil and gas
8. Professional services
9. Advanced manufacturing
10.Production of consumer goods
Future of Jobs Report 2025
39


1. Infrastructure
2. Automotive and aerospace
3. Mining and metals
4. Chemical and advanced materials
5. Supply chain and transportation
6. Telecommunications
7. Production of consumer goods
8. Oil and gas
9. Education and training
10.Real estate
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Note
The Future of Jobs Survey uses the World Economic Forum's Global Skills Taxonomy.
80%
75%
71%
70%
68%
68%
67%
66%
63%
60%
Environmental stewardship
1. Oil and gas
2. Chemical and advanced materials
3. Agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing
4. Automotive and aerospace
5. Mining and metals
6. Supply chain and transportation
7. Infrastructure
8. Production of consumer goods
9. Professional services
10.Energy technology and utilities
71%
69%
68%
67%
66%
64%
63%
63%
62%
61%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
1. Automotive and aerospace
2. Telecommunications
3. Education and training
4. Information and technology services
5. Medical and healthcare services
6. Electronics
7. Chemical and advanced materials
8. Accommodation, food, and leisure
9. Energy technology and utilities
10.Production of consumer goods
70%
68%
68%
67%
65%
64%
63%
62%
60%
59%
Talent management
Working with others
Cognitive skills
Technology skills
Self-efﬁcacy
Ethics
Management skills
70%
70%
68%
67%
65%
61%
61%
60%
59%
59%
Analytical thinking
1. Education and training
2. Supply chain and transportation
3. Automotive and aerospace
4. Telecommunications
5. Production of consumer goods
6. Insurance and pensions management
7. Advanced manufacturing
8. Financial services and capital markets
9. Infrastructure
10.Real estate
Core skills in 2030
Looking ahead to 2030, Figure 3.6 provides 
further insights into key priority areas for workforce 
development for organizations, by comparing core 
and emerging skills by 2030 based on their relative 
importance today and their future evolution. The top 
right quadrant highlights skills that are already core 
to organizations today and are expected to continue 
growing rapidly. Skills such as AI and big data; 
analytical thinking; creative thinking; resilience, 
flexibility and agility; and technological literacy 
are not only considered critical now but are 
also projected to become even more important. 
Moreover, leadership and social influence, 
curiosity and lifelong learning, systems thinking, 
talent management, and motivation and self-
awareness solidify their importance, emphasizing 
the continued relevance of human-centric skills 
amid rapid technological advances.  
Meanwhile, networks and cybersecurity and 
environmental stewardship – in the top left 
quadrant of the figure – rank among the top 10 
skills expected to increase significantly in use by 
2030, yet they are not currently considered core 
skills for most organizations. These emerging 
skills represent areas where businesses may 
need to anticipate growing demands and develop 
capabilities before they become critical. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
40


On the other hand, skills that are core today, but 
expected to remain stable over the next five years 
without significant increase in use, displayed in the 
lower right quadrant, include empathy and active 
listening, service orientation and customer service 
and resource management and operations. Finally, 
the bottom left quadrant of Figure 3.6 highlights 
skills that are neither critical now nor expected 
to increase significantly in use over the next five 
years. While most of these skills remain important, 
they may represent areas where less investment is 
required, allowing employers to prioritize resources 
toward more rapidly evolving skill sets.
Working with others
Engagement skills
Cognitive skills
Technology skills
Self-efﬁcacy
Physical abilities
Management skills
Ethics
AI and big data
Networks and cybersecurity
Technological literacy
Creative thinking
Resilience, ﬂexibility 
and agility
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Leadership and 
social inﬂuence
Talent management
Analytical thinking
Environmental stewardship
Systems thinking
Motivation and self-awareness
Empathy and active listening
Design and 
user experience
Service orientation and 
customer service
Teaching and 
mentoring
Programming
Marketing 
and media
Resource management 
and operations
Quality control
Global citizenship
Multi-lingualism
Sensory-processing 
abilities
Dependability and attention to detail
Reading, writing 
and mathematics
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
AI and big data
Networks and cybersecurity
Technological literacy
Creative thinking
Resilience, ﬂexibility 
and agility
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Leadership and 
social inﬂuence
Talent management
Analytical thinking
Environmental stewardship
Systems thinking
Motivation and self-awareness
Empathy and active listening
Design and 
user experience
Service orientation and 
customer service
Teaching and 
mentoring
Programming
Marketing 
and media
Resource management 
and operations
Quality control
Global citizenship
Multi-lingualism
Sensory-processing 
abilities
Dependability and attention to detail
Reading, writing 
and mathematics
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Core skills in 2030
Core now and expected to increase in importance
Steady skills
Core now, but not expected to increase in use
Emerging skills
Less essential now, but expected to increase in use
Out of focus skills
Less essential now, and not expected to increase in use
Core skills in 2030
F I G U R E  3 . 6
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024. 
Note
The Future of Jobs Survey uses the World Economic Forum's Global Skills Taxonomy. 
Bold lines represent the median values across all skills.
Share of employers considering skills to be a core skill in 2025 and share of employers expecting skills to increase in importance by 2030.
Share of employers considering as a core skill in 2025 (%)
Share of employers expecting increasing skills in use by 2030 (%)
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Skill differences between 
growing and declining jobs
While a diverse set of skills is essential for 
navigating the evolving workforce landscape, 
contrasting the skills requirements particularly 
associated with growing jobs, and those associated 
with declining ones, reveals windows of opportunity 
that exist for enabling dynamic job transitions.37,38 
Figure 3.7 illustrates these differences based on two 
metrics derived from the O*NET skills inventory:39 
the “importance gap”, which measures how much 
more essential a skill is for growing jobs, and the 
“proficiency gap”, which indicates the level of 
expertise required for each skill in growing jobs 
compared to declining jobs. For example, a score of 
2 in either metric means a skill is twice as critical or 
requires double the proficiency in growing roles.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
41


At an aggregate level across all growing and 
declining roles, resilience, flexibility and agility skills 
are the most significant differentiator between 
growing and declining job roles, ranking higher 
in both importance and proficiency for growing 
roles. Programming and technological literacy also 
differentiates growing and declining roles, reflecting 
the increasing integration of technology across 
occupational fields. While programming scores 
higher in importance, it requires less proficiency 
compared to technological literacy.
Resource management and operations, and 
quality control skills also show marked gaps 
in both proficiency and importance. Analytical 
thinking completes the list of top five skills for the 
importance gap, while ranking 6th for the skill 
proficiency gap. 
Manual dexterity, endurance, and precision display 
a notable difference in proficiency requirements 
rather than importance. This suggests that in roles 
in which manual skills remain critical, businesses 
are seeking a higher degree of specialization that 
combines manual abilities with technological 
literacy, and problem-solving skills. Growing roles 
demanding high manual skill proficiency include 
Drafters, Engineering and Mapping Technicians, 
Electrotechnology Engineers, Mechanics, Machinery 
Repairers, and Solar Energy Installation Engineers. 
By contrast, declining roles, such as printing trades 
workers and transportation attendants, generally 
require lower levels of manual skill proficiency. 
Notably, the only skill with an equal or lesser 
requirement in importance or proficiency for growing 
jobs is service orientation and customer service. 
These findings underscore the importance of 
targeted skills development efforts to support 
workers in transitioning to growing roles as well as 
to ensure employers can access a talent pool with 
the skills required for the future of work. 
Importance gap
Proﬁciency gap
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.2
3.4
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.37
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.95
1.05
1.15
1.20
1.30
1.25
1.10
1.00
Working with others
Engagement skills
Cognitive skills
Technology skills
Self-efﬁcacy
Management skills
Physical abilities
When growing and declining job roles attach the same level of importance and proﬁciency to a skill, the index equals one. The bigger the 
value, the bigger the gap between growing and declining jobs. 
Analytical thinking
Curiosity and 
lifelong learning
Dependability and 
attention to detail
Empathy and 
active listening
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Motivation and 
self-awareness
Programming
Quality control
Reading, writting 
and mathematics
Resilience, ﬂexibility 
and agility
Resource management 
and operations
Service orientation 
and customer service
Systems 
thinking
Talent management
Teaching, 
mentoring and 
coaching
Technology literacy
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Skill importance gap and skill proﬁciency gap between growing and declining jobs 
F I G U R E  3 . 7
Source
World Economy Forum analysis, based on Future of Jobs Survey 
2024, the World Economic Forum’s Global Skills Taxonomy and 
O*NET skill importance and level for each occupation.
Note
Bold lines represent the average across all skills.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
42


Drivers of skill disruption 
This section discusses how each of the five 
identified macrotrends driving labour-market 
transformation – technological change, 
geoeconomic fragmentation, green transition, 
demographic shifts and economic uncertainty – are 
expected to influence skill evolution by 2030.
Technological change
Technological advances are expected to drive 
skills change more than any other trend over the 
next five years. The increasing importance of AI 
and big data, networks and cybersecurity, and 
technological literacy is driven by the expansion 
of digital access and the integration of AI and 
information processing technologies. These trends 
are not only seen as responsible for the growth of 
these three fastest-growing skills but also for the 
rising importance of analytical thinking and systems 
thinking. These shifts highlight the increasing 
complexity of decision-making and the need for 
critical problem solving in a data-driven world. 
Beyond the top 10 fastest-growing skills, design 
and user experience, along with marketing and 
media skills, are also expected to see growth driven 
by technological advancements. These skills are 
closely linked to digital transformation, reflecting 
the rising importance of delivering seamless digital 
experiences and understanding the impact of 
consumer behaviour.
Robots and autonomous systems are also seen 
as a key driver of skills change, contributing to 
the increased demand for not only the three 
top-growing skills, but also programming and 
systems thinking – skills essential for managing 
and optimizing interactions with autonomous 
technology. As noted in Chapter 2, robots and 
autonomous systems are also among the primary 
drivers behind the fastest-growing jobs. Coupled 
with the rising demand for the three top growing 
skills, and programming, this trend underscores the 
importance of technological expertise and systems 
thinking as core skills in technical fields. These 
capabilities are crucial for enabling employees 
to adapt to, and collaborate effectively with, 
automated systems across a range of industries.
While technology fuels demand for certain skills, it 
also accelerates the decline of others. Skills such 
as manual dexterity, endurance, precision, and 
reading, writing, and mathematics are expected 
to diminish in relevance as digital access, AI and 
information processing, and robotics increasingly 
automate these tasks. Interestingly, whereas 
programming remains stable as an in-demand 
skill, both respondents expecting growth in its use 
and those expecting decline consistently point to 
technological change as the primary driver behind 
this change. As discussed in more depth in Chapter 
2, this highlights the dual effect of technology, 
underscoring how the same technological forces 
that drive job creation may also contribute to job 
displacement. Additionally, as also discussed in 
Chapter 2, the primary impact of technologies 
such as GenAI on skills may lie in their potential for 
“augmenting” human skills through human-machine 
collaboration, rather than in outright replacement, 
particularly given the continued importance of 
human-centred skills (Box 3.1). 
These findings underscore an urgent need for 
appropriate reskilling and upskilling strategies to 
bridge emerging divides. Such strategies will be 
essential in helping workers transition to roles that 
blend technical expertise with human-centred 
capabilities, supporting a more adaptable workforce 
in an increasingly technology-driven landscape.
3.2
Generative AI and human-centred skills
B O X  3 . 1
In collaboration with Indeed
The release of ChatGPT 3.5 in November 2022 
marked an inflection point in public awareness 
of GenAI technologies, which sparked both 
excitement and apprehension regarding their 
potential impact on the workforce.40 In this 
context, research conducted by Indeed for this 
report highlights the continued importance of 
human-centred skills in an age of GenAI. Figure 
B3.1 illustrates the capacity of GenAI to substitute 
a human in executing specific skills, based on an 
assessment by GPT-4o of its own ability to utilize 
skills across three areas: its ability to provide 
theoretical knowledge about a given skill, its 
problem-solving abilities related to that skill, and 
the need for physical presence or manual actions 
in performing that skill.41 The chart categorizes 
more than 2,800 granular skills into the World 
Economic Forum’s Global Skills Taxonomy and 
evaluates their capacity of substitution by GenAI 
according to five categories: very low capacity, 
low capacity, moderate capacity, high capacity, 
and very high capacity.  
Zero of the more than 2,800 skills assessed were 
determined to exhibit “very high capacity” to 
be replaced by the current generation of GenAI 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
43


tools, with the majority of examined skills (69%) 
determined to have either “very low capacity” or 
“low capacity” to be substituted, indicating that 
GenAI currently remains limited in performing 
tasks that require physical execution, nuanced 
judgment or hands-on application. Skills rooted 
in human interaction –  including empathy and 
active listening, and sensory processing abilities 
–  and manual dexterity, endurance and precision, 
currently show no substitution potential due to 
their physical and deeply human components. 
These findings underscore the practical limitations 
of current GenAI models, which lack the 
physicality to perform tasks that require hands-on 
interaction – although advances in robotics and 
the integration of GenAI into robotic systems could 
impact this in the future.
Where GenAI demonstrates higher substitution 
potential is in skills that can be effectively 
performed by leveraging theoretical knowledge 
alongside digital manipulation. These include 
granular skills within AI and big data, such as 
data mining and machine learning applications. 
Furthermore, GenAI shows strengths in reading, 
writing, and mathematics, and multi-lingualism, 
where it can assist in summarizing complex 
information, drafting text, performing calculations, 
and translation. Notably, more than one-quarter 
(28.5%) of the more than 2,800 granular skills 
examined currently exhibit a moderate capacity 
of substitution, highlighting areas where, as the 
technology continues to evolve, its capacity of 
substitution could increase in the near future.   
These findings highlight the potential of GenAI for 
augmenting human work through human-machine 
collaboration, rather than fully replacing it in most 
areas. Skills requiring nuanced understanding, 
complex problem-solving or sensory processing 
show limited current risk of replacement by GenAI, 
affirming that human oversight remains crucial 
even in areas where GenAI can provide assistance. 
For employers, these insights emphasize the need 
for training and upskilling initiatives that focus on 
both advanced prompt-writing skills and broader 
GenAI literacy.
Low capacity
Very low capacity
Moderate capacity
High capacity
100
Share of all granular skills within each skill group (%)
40
60
80
100
20
20
40
0
60
80
Current capacity for substitution by Generative AI, by skill group
F I G U R E  B 3 . 1
Source
Indeed analysis; World Economic Forum, Global Skills Taxonomy. 
Note
No skills have been rated with “very high capacity” for substitution.
Capacity of GenAI substituting a human in performing a given skill as a percentage share of all granular skills within each skill group. 
Analysis based on GPT-4o, with over 2800 granular skills from the Indeed database as of August 2024.
Artiﬁcial intelligence and big data
Reading, writing and mathematics
Marketing and media
Systems thinking
Multi-lingualism
Programming
Financial management
Dependability and attention to detail
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Technology literacy
Design and user experience
Quality management
Operations and logistics
Networks and cybersecurity
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Talent management
Analytical thinking
Service orientation and customer service
Global citizenship
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
Teaching, mentoring, and coaching
Creative thinking
Environmental stewardship
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Empathy and active listening
Sensory-processing abilities
44


Geoeconomic fragmentation and 
economic uncertainty
The Future of Jobs Survey also examined the 
impact of geoeconomic trends on skill evolution. 
Increasing geoeconomic fragmentation, coupled 
with the rapid adoption of new technologies and 
expansion of digital access, has significantly 
increased cybersecurity concerns.42 These 
geoeconomic trends have led to a surge in 
demand for network and cybersecurity skills as 
organizations seek to protect digital infrastructure 
from emerging threats. 
Geoeconomic fragmentation is also driving a 
need for human-centred skills such as resilience, 
flexibility, agility, leadership and social influence, 
and global citizenship. In a world where crises are 
becoming more frequent, employers need leaders 
and teams capable of adapting to uncertainty and 
managing complex social dynamics. 
Slower economic growth and increased restrictions 
to global trade are contributing to the increased 
importance of creative thinking and resilience, 
flexibility, and agility. These skills are crucial for 
navigating uncertain economic landscapes, 
as businesses seek to innovate and remain 
competitive despite market constraints. 
Green transition
A growing focus on environmental stewardship as a 
critical skill reflects an evolving alignment between 
business strategies and sustainability objectives. 
This rise, driven by climate adaptation efforts, 
carbon reduction initiatives, and energy generation, 
storage and distribution technologies, points to 
a profound shift whereby environmental skills are 
becoming increasingly integral across diverse 
sectors. As previously shown in Chapter 2 and Box 
2.1, an increasing prioritization of climate adaptation 
and energy solutions by employers responding 
to the Future of Jobs Survey is not only evident in 
skill requirements but also appears as a significant 
factor in net job growth by 2030.
While demand for global citizenship skills is 
expected by most respondents to remain stable 
over the next five years, employers that anticipate 
a rise in its importance cite the convergence 
of climate-change adaptation, geoeconomic 
fragmentation and broadening digital access 
as key factors. This highlights the growing 
interconnectedness of sustainability and global 
collaboration, particularly as businesses operate 
in increasingly fragmented and climate-sensitive 
environments. 
Demographic shifts
Ongoing demographic shifts, particularly aging 
and declining workforces in developed economies, 
are expected to emerge as a significant driver of 
skill demand. Aging and declining working-age 
populations are pressing organizations to prioritize 
talent management, teaching and mentoring 
and motivation and self-awareness. Alongside 
these priorities, there is a rising focus on empathy 
and active listening, resource management, and 
customer service, highlighting a growing need for 
interpersonal and operational skills that can address 
the specific needs of an aging workforce and foster 
more inclusive work environments.
Increasing demand for talent management and 
motivation and self-awareness skills is also driven 
by growing working-age populations. Findings 
reported in Chapter 2 underscore similar patterns, 
where aging and growing working-age populations 
are major drivers of growth in jobs across 
Education, Sales, and Hospitality. These trends 
reveal the dual role demographic changes play in 
shaping both job availability and the types of skills 
needed, emphasizing the interconnectedness of 
workforce demographics with skills development 
and talent strategies across sectors.
Reskilling and upskilling strategies
Having anticipated significant skill disruptions, 
employers have increasingly invested in reskilling 
and upskilling initiatives to align workforce skills with 
evolving demands (see Section 3.1). 
This section explores training trends, how 
employers expect to finance their training 
initiatives, and their expectations regarding the 
outcomes of these investments.
Training needs
Future of Jobs Survey respondents indicate that 
50% of their workforce has completed training as 
part of their learning and development initiatives. 
This reflects a positive global trend compared 
to 2023, when only 41% of the workforce had 
received training. The rise in training completion 
is evident across nearly all industries (Figure 3.8), 
suggesting a growing recognition of the importance 
of continuous skill development.
However, a few industries stand out from this trend. 
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing, and Real Estate 
are the only sectors that have seen a decline in 
training completion between the two last editions 
of this report. On the other hand, industries like 
Insurance and Pensions Management, Supply 
3.3
Future of Jobs Report 2025
45


Share of the workforce (%)
2023
2025
0
15
30
60
45
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
0
15
30
60
45
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
0
15
30
60
45
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
0
15
30
60
45
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
2023
2025
0
15
30
60
45
Accommodation, Food, 
and Leisure
Advanced manufacturing
Agriculture, forestry, and 
ﬁshing
Automotive and 
Aerospace
Chemical and advanced 
materials
Education and training
Electronics
Energy technology and 
utilities
Financial services and 
capital markets
Government and public 
sector
Information and 
technology services
Infrastructure
Insurance and pensions 
management
Medical and healthcare 
services
Mining and Metals
Oil and gas
Production of consumer 
goods
Real estate
Retail and wholesale of 
consumer goods
Supply chain and 
transportation
Telecommunications
+2%
+3%
-8%
+1%
+4%
+7%
+8%
+4%
+11%
+4%
+8%
+1%
+22%
+13%
+4%
+8%
+17%
+14%
-7%
+9%
+19%
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024 and 
Future of Jobs Survey 2022.
Note
Only industries with data points for both years are included in this analysis. Professional Services 
has data available only for 2025. 
Training completion as part of learning and development strategies, 2023 vs. 2025,
by industry
F I G U R E  3 . 8
Evolution in the share of the workforce that has completed training as part of employers’ learning and development strategies. Only 
industries with data points for both years are included in the analysis.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
46


Chain and Transportation and Telecommunications 
have seen the most significant rise in the share of 
workers completing training. 
Looking ahead, Figure 3.9 provides an overview 
of expectations around workforce training needs 
by 2030. According to surveyed employers, for a 
representative sample of 100 workers 41 will not 
require significant training by 2030; 11 will require 
training, but it will not be accessible to them in the 
foreseeable future; and 29 will require training and 
be upskilled within their current roles. Additionally, 
employers anticipate that 19 out of 100 workers will 
require training and will be reskilled and redeployed 
within their organization by 2030. 
The anticipated need for training varies significantly 
across industries and geographies. While 
companies headquartered in North America 
estimate that 67% of their workforce will require 
training by 2030, those in Central Asia and the 
Middle East and North Africa project that under 
50% of their workforce will need training by 2030.
Industries, such as Telecommunications, and 
Information and Technology Services, which 
saw some of the largest uptake in reskilling and 
upskilling (Figure 3.8), still anticipate significant 
training needs, with 63% and 62% of their 
workforce, respectively, expected to need further 
training by 2030. By contrast, sectors with declining 
trendlines in training completion are among the 
sectors with the lowest projected additional training 
needs.
The share of employees estimated as unlikely to 
receive upskilling opportunities is somewhat uniform 
across industries and geographies, suggesting 
that while the demand for skills may vary, access 
to reskilling and upskilling opportunities remains 
similarly constrained globally.
Breakdown of the typical training outlook for a representative group of 100 workers, calculated based on averages of the training requirements 
reported by employers surveyed. 
Would not need 
training by 2030
41
Would be upskilled
in their current role
29
19
11
Would be upskilled 
and re-deployed
Would be unlikely to 
receive the necessary 
upskilling
Upskilling and reskilling outlook, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  3 . 9
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Funding for training programmes
When it comes to funding of reskilling and upskilling 
initiatives, employers predominantly expect to 
fund their own training programmes, as shown in 
Figure 3.10. The second-most common funding 
mechanism is free of cost training, followed by 
government and public-private funding. 
With funding for reskilling and upskilling being the 
most-welcomed public-policy support by Future 
of Jobs Survey respondents, government funding 
plays a more significant role in industries such as 
Accommodation, Food, and Leisure; Government 
and Public Sector; and Education and Training, 
where over 30% of companies expect to rely on 
public financing for training initiatives. On the other 
hand, only 3% of companies in the Insurance and 
Pensions Management industry expect to rely on 
government funding for training.
While co-funding across industries is the least 
utilized funding model overall, it is expected to 
have the largest use in industries such as Care, 
Personal Services and Wellbeing; Agriculture, 
Forestry, and Fishing; and Automotive and 
Aerospace. This highlights the importance of cross 
industry collaboration in these industries.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
47


Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Funding for training, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  3 . 1 0
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Funded by own organization
Free of cost training
Funded by government
Public-private hybrid funding
Co-funding across the industry
Other
86%
27%
20%
18%
16%
6%
Share of employers anticipating use of stated funding source for worker training programmes from 2025 to 2030.
The most common outcomes employers expect 
from their investment in training are enhanced 
productivity (cited by 77% of respondents) and 
improved competitiveness (70%). Talent retention 
ranks as the third-most important expected 
outcome of training programmes, though it plays 
a more central role in sectors such as Automotive 
and Aerospace, Electronics, and Production of 
Consumer Goods, where over 72% of employers 
highlight this as a key priority (Figure 3.11).
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Expected outcomes from investing in training, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  3 . 1 1
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Surveys 2024.
77%
70%
65%
52%
48%
46%
38%
19%
Share of employers expecting the stated outcome from investing in worker training programmes from 2025 to 2030. 
Enhancing productivity of the company
Improving competitiveness of the company
Improving talent retention
Transitioning existing employees to new jobs or evolving roles
Increasing talent mobility across different roles
Attracting new or diverse talent
Enhancing reputation and branding of the company
Increasing talent mobility across different geographies
Future of Jobs Report 2025
48


Workforce strategies
This chapter discusses workforce strategies that 
employers anticipate adopting in response to the 
macrotrends shaping the future of work and key 
barriers to organizational transformation. It also 
analyses employers’ outlook on talent availability 
from now to 2030, and explores planned workplace 
practices and policies to achieve their organization’s 
business goals, with a particular focus on the 
shifting relationship between humans and 
technologies. 
Barriers to transformation
Skill gaps in the labour market are the primary 
barrier to business transformation perceived by 
Future of Jobs Survey respondents for the 2025-
2030 period, cited by 63% of surveyed employers 
(Figure 4.1). This is even more pronounced than 
the results described in the 2023 edition of the 
report, where skills gaps in the local labour market 
also topped the transformation barriers, backed 
by 60% of executives. This skill challenge persists 
across almost all industries and geographies, 
ranking first in 52 out of 55 economies and 19 out 
of 22 sectors.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
4
4.1
63%
46%
39%
37%
32%
27%
26%
25%
Barriers to organizational transformation, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 1
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed expecting the stated barrier will hinder their organisational transformation.
1. Skills gaps in the labour market
2. Organizational culture and resistance to change
3. Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
4. Inability to attract talent to the industry
5. Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
6. Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
7. Shortage of investment capital 
8. Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
The second most significant perceived barrier 
is organizational culture and resistance to 
change, identified by 46% of respondents as a 
key obstacle, which highlights the anticipated 
challenge of aligning internal processes, 
organizational structures, hierarchies and mindsets 
in responding to the trends and disruptions 
companies expect to face. Regulatory concerns 
are considered the third most relevant barrier, 
identified by 39% of employers. Moreover, 32% of 
respondents highlight a lack of adequate data and 
technical infrastructure as an additional obstacle. 
Other barriers, such as shortage of investment 
capital (26%) and insufficient understanding of 
opportunities (25%), are cited less frequently. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
49


In the report’s 2023 edition, more than half of 
respondents identified difficulties in attracting talent 
as a primary barrier. This year’s survey distinguishes 
between industry attractiveness and firm-level 
attractiveness, and results show that 37% of 
companies view lack of industry attractiveness as a 
notable barrier, while 27% cite firm-specific issues. 
Talent availability outlook 
Employers’ outlook on talent availability has 
decreased compared to the results highlighted in 
the report’s 2023 edition. This year, only 29% of 
businesses expect talent availability to improve 
over the 2025-2030 period, a drop from 39% in 
2023. By contrast, 42% of employers expect talent 
availability to decline over this period, resulting 
in a net negative talent availability outlook (-13% 
net expectation of improvement) and highlighting 
increasing concern among businesses regarding 
their ability to find the right future talent (Figure 4.2). 
However, employers remain more broadly optimistic 
about the outlook for talent development. Seven 
in 10 respondents expect improvements in talent 
development within their organization by 2030. 
However, as noted in the report’s 2023 edition, 
77% of businesses expressed a positive view on 
the outlook for talent development, suggesting 
that some companies are re-evaluating their 
expectations.
With regard to talent retention, employers are 
similarly less positive than in the report’s previous 
edition: Only 44% of surveyed organizations expect 
improvements in their ability to retain talent, a 
decline from 53% two years ago.
Talent availability when hiring
Talent development of existing workforce
Talent retention of existing workforce
-100
-50
+100
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
+50
-13%
+66%
+25%
Talent outlook, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 2
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed expecting a positive, neutral and negative outlook for talent availability, talent development and talent 
retention over the next ﬁve years.
Expected to worsen
Net difference
Expected to improve
Neutral
Country-specific variations in talent availability 
outlook, as shown for hiring in Figure 4.3, reflect 
broader demographic dynamics. For example, in 
the Middle East and North Africa, employers in 
countries such as Egypt (+39% net expectation 
of improvement), Morocco (+38%), and Bahrain 
(+31%) display high levels of optimism about 
talent availability, with the majority of respondents 
expecting hiring conditions to improve by 2030. 
By contrast, employers in European economies 
anticipate increasing challenges in hiring availability. 
Expectations around talent development shows 
significant regional variation. For example, 
companies headquartered in Eastern Asia, Sub-
Saharan Africa, and Central Asia generally report 
high levels of optimism for the next five years. By 
contrast, businesses headquartered in Europe, 
the Middle East and Northern Africa, and Northern 
America are more cautious than global averages 
with regard to their expectations.
As for talent retention, employers in high-income 
and upper-middle-income economies express 
greater concern compared to their counterparts in 
lower-middle-income economies.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
50


Talent hiring availability, by economy, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 3
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Expected to worsen
Net effect
Expected to improve
Share of employers surveyed expecting a positive and negative outlook for talent availability in terms of hiring over the 2025 to 2030 
period, and their net difference.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
51


Workforce strategy 
Upskilling the workforce emerges as the most 
common workforce strategy in response to 
macrotrends, over the 2025-2030 period, with 
85% of surveyed employers anticipating adopting 
this approach (Figure 4.4). Upskilling is identified 
as a top 3 priority across all geographies, and 
economies at all income levels, with employers in 
high-income economies (87%) slightly ahead of 
those in upper-middle-income (84%) and lower-
middle-income (82%) ones.
Process and task automation is expected to be 
the second most common workforce strategy, 
with 73% of employers planning to accelerate 
their use of this approach – down from 80% as 
noted in the report’s 2023 edition. Additionally, 
63% of employers intend to complement and 
augment their workforce with new technologies. 
Automation is a more pronounced strategy in 
high-income economies (77%), compared to 
upper-middle-income (74%) and lower-middle-
income economies (57%). 
Regarding adjusting the composition of their 
workforce, 70% of organizations surveyed plan to 
hire new staff with emerging in-demand skills, 51% 
intend to transition staff from declining to growing 
roles internally, while 41% foresee staff reductions 
due to skills obsolescence. A slightly higher share 
of employers plan to move operations within 
closer control through reshoring, nearshoring 
or friendshoring (10%) than those who plan to 
offshore significant parts of their workforce (8%). 
Improving talent availability
Business practices
The importance of supporting employee health 
and well-being has newly emerged as a top priority 
to increase talent availability over the 2025-2030 
period. As shown in Figure 4.5, 64% of employers 
now see promise in this approach, a marked rise 
from 9th place in the 2023 edition of this report to 
1st this year. In fact, this newfound emphasis on 
this practice holds importance across industries, 
ranking first in eight sectors and consistently within 
the top four across all others. In the Insurance and 
Pensions Management sector, 85% of companies 
expect this practice to improve talent availability. 
The Accommodation, Food, and Leisure, and 
Education and Training sectors witnessed the 
largest jump in prioritizing employee well-being 
between 2023 and 2025.
Additional business practices identified as promising 
to increase talent availability include providing 
effective reskilling and upskilling opportunities43, 
highlighted by 63% of organizations, this is 
particularly evident in the Government and Public 
sector, where four out of five respondents expect 
such measures to grow their talent base. Following 
closely behind, improving talent progression and 
promotion, previously ranked highest in the 2023 
edition, remains a key focus for 62% of surveyed 
organizations. Higher wages are identified as a 
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Workforce strategies, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 4
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
85%
73%
70%
63%
51%
41%
10%
8%
Share of employers surveyed planning to adopt the stated workforce strategies.
Upskill workforce
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
Complement and augment workforce with new technologies
Transition existing staff from declining to growing roles
Reduce staff whose skills are becoming less relevant or 
where roles are no longer needed
Move operations within closer control through re-shoring, 
near-shoring or friend-shoring
Off-shore signiﬁcant parts of workforce
4.2
Future of Jobs Report 2025
52


Business practices to increase talent availability, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 5
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed identifying the stated business practices as promising to increase talent availability.
Supporting employee health and well-being
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
Offering higher wages
Tapping into diverse talent pools
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
Offering diversity, equity and inclusion policies and programmes
Improving working hours and overtime policies
Articulate business purpose and impact
Offering remote work across national borders
Supplementing childcare for working parents
Improving safety in the workplace
Supporting workers with caregiving responsibilities
Removing degree requirements and conduct skills-based hiring
Changes to pension schemes and extend their retirement age
Supporting worker representation
64%
63%
62%
50%
47%
43%
39%
38%
37%
27%
26%
25%
24%
19%
14%
11%
priority by 50% of respondents, with particular 
significance in the Education and Training sector, 
where 61% of employers emphasize this measure.
Tapping into diverse talent pools continues to 
increase in importance, with almost half of surveyed 
employers (47%) now emphasizing the potential of 
this strategy – a substantial increase from just over 
10% in the report’s 2023 edition. These findings 
highlight the potential of skills-first approaches 
in identifying and attracting talent based on skills 
rather than traditional credentials.44 In line with this, 
employers also show increased interest in offering 
flexibility measures, such as enabling remote work 
across national borders (27%) and supporting 
workers with caregiving responsibilities (26%). 
By contrast, articulating business purpose and 
impact has seen a decline in emphasis, dropping 
from 4th place in the report’s 2023 edition, with 
37% of employers highlighting the promise of this 
measure.
Talent availability: an employee perspective
B O X  4 . 1
In collaboration with ADP Research
To complement the Future of Jobs Survey’s 
focus on employer perspectives on talent 
availability, collaboration for this report with 
ADP Research has produced a data set that 
provides the employee perspective, aiming to 
understand the key factors and priorities that 
would make workers want to stay in a job. The 
resulting analysis reveals both convergences and 
divergences in priorities for talent attraction and 
retention (Figure B4.1). 
Where employees’ reasons to stay and employers’ 
practices align include: improving talent 
progression and promotion processes (employer 
rank 3rd vs. employee rank 2nd), offering higher 
wages (employer rank 4th vs. employee rank 3rd), 
and providing remote or hybrid work opportunities 
(employer 6th vs. employee 4th). 
The findings also highlight areas of misalignment 
between employee and employer expectations. 
The divergence is most pronounced around 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
53


Public policies 
Globally, when asked about the public-policy 
interventions with the highest perceived potential 
to increase access to talent over the 2025-2030 
period, employers identified funding for reskilling 
and upskilling (55%) and provision of reskilling and 
upskilling (52%) as the two most crucial policy 
measures (Figure 4.6). This points to businesses’ 
desire for sustained public investment in skills 
development to align workforce capabilities with 
future labour-market demands.
Improving public education systems has risen in 
perceived priority and now ranks 3rd, with 47% 
of respondents highlighting this policy measure, 
up from 4th in the report’s 2023 edition. In Israel, 
Kazakhstan and the Philippines, public education 
system improvements saw the largest increase 
in priority as a public policy measure to enhance 
talent availability, rising seven, six, and six places, 
respectively, compared to 2023. Simultaneously, 
wage-setting flexibility has moved to 5th place 
globally, up from 6th in 2023, with 38% of 
respondents highlighting this policy measure. 
Wage subsidies saw the biggest decline in 
perceived importance, moving from 3rd in 2023 to 
8th in this year’s edition, with 26% of respondents 
pointing to it as a critical policy tool. Flexibility in 
hiring and firing practices, ranked 4th, has declined 
two places since 2023, now highlighted by 44% of 
employers. Despite the overall decline in emphasis 
on this measure, wage subsidies remain the top 
highlighted policy in Türkiye and Morocco, while 
hiring and firing flexibility is the most emphasized 
priority in eleven countries, including Australia, 
Brazil, Republic of Korea and Singapore.
In light of demographic shifts, companies are 
increasingly exploring policy interventions aimed 
at broadening the talent pool. Changes to labour 
laws related to remote work are highlighted as a 
priority by 36% of employers, with strong demand 
in particular from companies headquartered in 
supporting health and well-being and upskilling 
and reskilling, which are viewed as essential by 
employers, but less so by employees, who rank 
them 8th and 7th, respectively. By contrast, 
employees place higher value on working hours, 
which tops the list of desired policies, while 
employers rank this measure the eighth most 
effective strategy to boost talent availability; and 
pension policies, which rank 5th for employees – 
10 places higher than for employers. 
Both employees and employers placed less 
emphasis on supporting workers with caregiving 
responsibilities and articulating business purpose 
and social impact.
Rank
Business practices to boost talent availability: employee vs. employer perspective
F I G U R E  B 4 . 1
Source
ADP Research and World Economic Forum analysis.
Note
In the ADP Research survey, the question is framed as follows: From the following list, which are 
the top three (perks) reasons you stay with your current employer? The options were matched 
with the list of business practices to boost talent availability in the Future of Jobs Survey. 
Employee perspective
Employer perspective
Employee (ADP Research) and employer (Future of Jobs Survey) ranking of stated business practice to boost talent availability, and gap 
between the two.
Supporting workers with caregiving responsibilities
Articulating business purpose and impact
Supporting employee health and well-being
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
Offering remote work across national borders
Changes to pension schemes and extend their retirement age
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
Offering higher wages
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
Improving working hours and overtime policies
Future of Jobs Report 2025
54


Sub-Saharan Africa, as well as, from an industry 
perspective, in the finance industry (both Financial 
Services and Capital markets and Insurance and 
Pensions Management). Changes to immigration 
laws (26%) are less emphasized, with the exception 
of industries such as Production of Consumer 
Goods; Accommodation, Food, and Leisure; and 
Electronics. Meanwhile, a quarter of respondents 
(25%) highlight changes to pension schemes 
and retirement ages. Companies headquartered 
in Eastern Asia, where the effect of ageing 
workforces is currently more pronounced, favour 
this public policy. By contrast, few organizations 
headquartered in regions with younger populations, 
such as Sub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia, see 
the potential of such policy intervention.
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
Improvements to public education systems
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
Flexibility on setting wages
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
Changes to immigration laws
Wage subsidies
Changes to pension schemes and retirement ages
Improved transport infrastructure and services
Funding and provision of caregiver programmes
0
20
100
Share of employers surveyed (%)
40
60
80
55%
52%
47%
44%
38%
36%
26%
26%
25%
22%
13%
Public policies to increase talent availability, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 6
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed identifying the stated public policies as promising to increase talent availability.
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Globally, the Future of Jobs Survey finds increased 
emphasis by employers on diversity, equity and 
inclusion in the workplace, connected to a growing 
perception of its potential to increase talent 
availability. Tapping into diverse talent pools is 
now considered among the top 5 most impactful 
business practices to increase talent availability, 
compared to its 11th place ranking in the report’s 
2023 edition. 
Eighty-three percent of surveyed employers 
have implemented diversity, equity and inclusion 
measures, an increase from 67% in 2023. 
This trend is especially strong among larger 
organizations, where nearly all companies with over 
50,000 employees (95%) and those headquartered 
in Northern America (96%) report having such 
measures in place. By contrast, companies 
headquartered in lower-middle-income economies 
(75%) and smaller organizations (73%) are less 
likely to implement diversity, equity and inclusion 
measures.
As shown in Figure 4.7, 51% of employers plan 
to run diversity, equity and inclusion trainings 
for managers and staff, which remains the most 
common such programme element anticipated 
to be implemented by organizations in the next 
five years. This is closely followed by targeted 
recruitment, retention and progression initiatives 
(48%), with diversity, equity and inclusion goals, 
targets and quotas (42%) experiencing the fastest 
growth in anticipated adoption. In the report’s 
2023 edition, only one-quarter of companies had 
planned to adopt such targets (Figure 4.8). Pay 
equity reviews and salary audits, anti-harassment 
protocols and support for workers with caregiving 
responsibilities are also increasingly highlighted, 
with 39%, 33% and 26% of companies, 
respectively, planning to adopt these measures. 
Hiring diversity, equity and inclusion officers and 
supporting employee resource groups (ERGs) are 
less commonly mentioned, adopted by 15% and 
22% of surveyed organizations, respectively.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
55


Comprehensive diversity, equity and inclusion training for managers and staff
Targeted recruitment, retention and progression initiatives
Set diversity, equity and inclusion goals, targets or quotas
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
Anti-harrasment protocols
Embed diversity, equity and inclusion goals and solutions across the supply chain
Support workers with caregiving responsibilities
Set up Employee Resource Groups (ERG)
Employ a diversity, equity and inclusion ofﬁcer
51%
48%
42%
39%
33%
27%
26%
22%
15%
Planned implementation of diversity, equity and inclusion measures, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 7
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed which plan to implement the stated measure.
Year
2023
0
10
5
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
Share of employers surveyed (%)
2025
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2022 and 
Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Planned implementation of diversity, equity and inclusion measures, 2023 vs. 2025
F I G U R E  4 . 8
Change in share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated measure.
Run comprehensive diversity, 
equity and inclusion training
for managers and staff (+12%)
Set diversity, equity tand 
inclusion goals, targets
or quotas (+16%)
Embed diversity, equity and 
inclusion goals and solutions 
across the supply chain (+4%)
Set up Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs) (+3%)
Employ a diversity, equity
and inclusion Ofﬁcer (+3%)
Future of Jobs Report 2025
56


Geographic differences persist. For example, as 
shown in Table 4.1, companies headquartered in 
the Middle East and Northern Africa are less likely to 
engage in pay equity reviews (23%), while those in 
Latin America and the Caribbean are more inclined 
to implement anti-harassment protocols (54%). In 
Northern America, a significantly higher share (42%) 
of employers anticipates setting up ERGs.
In terms of employee demographics, women 
are considered the highest priority group for 
surveyed employers’ diversity, equity and inclusion 
programmes worldwide, with 76% of respondents 
anticipating a focus of their measures on this group 
(Figure 4.9). Workers with disabilities (56%) and 
‘Gen Z’ youth (those under the age of 25) (52%) 
are the second- and third most considered groups. 
Older workers (those over the age of 55) and those 
identifying as LGBTQI+ are anticipated to be a 
focus for 42% and 33% of surveyed employers, 
respectively. Finally, 27% of respondents anticipate 
a focus on individuals from disadvantaged religious, 
ethnic, or racial backgrounds. This represents a 
decline from the report’s 2023 edition, when nearly 
two-fifths of employers expected to be focusing 
on individuals from these groups. Workers from 
low-income backgrounds (24%) and migrants, 
refugees and displaced workers (21%) are the least 
commonly mentioned groups.
Central Asia
Eastern Asia
Europe
Latin America 
and the 
Caribbean
Middle East 
and Northern 
Africa
Northern 
America
South-eastern 
Asia
Southern 
Asia
Sub-Saharan 
Africa
Planned implementation of diversity, equity and inclusion measures, 2025-2030, by region
TA B L E  4 . 1
50
100
75
25
0
Share of employers surveyed (%)
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed headquartered in each region planning to implement the measure.
Comprehensive diversity, equity and inclusion training
for  managers and staff
Targeted recruitment, retention and progression initiatives
Set diversity, equity and inclusion goals, targets or quotas
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
Anti-harrasment protocols
Embed diversity, equity and inclusion goals and solutions  
across the supply chain
Support workers with caregiving responsibilities
Set up Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
Employ a diversity, equity and inclusion ofﬁcer
Future of Jobs Report 2025
57


Wages
As the labour market experiences shifts in 
workforce dynamics due to macrotrends such 
as technological change, demographic shifts 
and economic uncertainty, wage dynamics have 
become an increasingly important factor for 
understanding the shape of future labour markets. 
As revealed by the Future of Jobs Survey, more 
than half (52%) of employers globally expect to see 
an increase in the share of their revenue allocated 
to wages over the 2025-2030 period, 41% of 
surveyed employers anticipate their current wage 
allocation to remain stable, while 7% foresee a 
reduction by 2030 (Figure 4.10). 
Women
Those with disabilities
Youth from Gen Z (under age 25)
Older workers (over age 55)
Those who identify as LGBTQI+
Those from a disadvantaged religious, 
ethnic or racial background
Those from a low-income background
Migrants, refugees and displaced 
workers
76%
32%
52%
56%
42%
27%
24%
21%
0
20
100
Share of employers surveyed (%)
40
60
80
Diversity, equity, and inclusion priority groups, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 9
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Top 3 economies
Colombia
Egypt
Portugal
Estonia
Ireland
Ireland
Egypt
Denmark
Ireland
Philippines
Morocco
Lithuania
Switzerland
South Africa
Tunisia
Belgium
Saudi Arabia
Israel
Tunisia
Latvia
Norway
Egypt
Hong Kong SAR, 
China
Lithuania
Share of employers surveyed expecting to focus diversity, equity and inclusion measures on the stated demographic group over the 2025 
to 2030 period. Top three economies with the highest share of employer responses for each group.
52%
41%
7%
Wage outlook, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 1 0
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as a percentage of the 
company’s total revenue to increase, remain stable or decline.
Similar share as today
Growing share compared to today
Declining share compared to today
Smaller companies exhibit higher expectations 
regarding growth of wages as a share of total 
revenues, with 57% of employers with fewer than 
1,000 employees anticipating an increase in wage 
share. By contrast, only 45% of employers with 
10,000–50,000 employees and 47% of those with 
over 50,000 employees expect to see the same.
In shaping wage and compensation policies, two 
factors stand out globally: workers’ productivity and 
performance (cited by 77% of respondents) and 
competing to retain talent (cited by 71%) (Figure 
4.11). Sector-wise, only six industries expect an 
emphasis on competition for talent over productivity 
and performance as a factor in their wage 
considerations: Electronics, Insurance and Pensions 
Management, Professional Services, Real Estate, 
Medical and Healthcare Services, and Government 
and Public Sector. All other industries anticipate 
a focus on productivity as the more crucial factor 
when designing wage strategies over the 2025-
2030 period. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
58


Geographically, surveyed companies operating 
in 32 economies highlight wage alignment with 
productivity and performance as the key factor, 
while respondents in 28 economies indicate a 
greater focus on competition for talent when 
determining wage strategies. Wage inequalities 
(cited by 33% of respondents), government 
regulations and collective bargaining (32%), and 
cost reduction strategies (30%) are also influencing 
compensation decisions globally.
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Wage strategies, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 1 1
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
77%
71%
33%
32%
30%
Share of employers surveyed expecting the stated factor will drive decisions in designing wage and compensation policies over the 
2025 to 2030 period.
Aligning wages with workers’ productivity and performance
Competing for retaining talent and skills
Reducing wage inequalities and supporting workers’ 
purchasing power
Aligning wages with government regulations and collective 
bargaining agreements
Reducing costs 
Wage premium for skills and experience
B O X  4 . 2
In collaboration with ADP Research
Given shifting global workforce dynamics, how are 
differences in education, training and experience 
reflected in wages? Analysis conducted by ADP 
Research for the Future of Jobs Report 2025 
addresses this question by analysing monthly 
wage data of workers in the United States 
according to Occupation Information Network 
(O*NET) job zones. The O*NET data assigns 
all occupations to job zones, from entry-level 
positions needing minimal preparation (Job 
zone 1) to highly specialized roles with extensive 
preparation, usually demanding graduate 
school education and extensive job training and 
work experience (Job zone 5). The research 
analyses wages at each job zone to calculate 
a wage premium from one level of workforce 
preparedness to another.
Workers’ median and mean wages increase as 
the job zone level increases (Figure B4.2A). On 
average, the median wage is 37% higher for each 
job zone level (Figure B4.2B). The highest gap 
between levels is 48%, which is the difference in 
median wage between job zone 3, where workers 
such as Security Guards and Dental Laboratory 
Technicians usually receive vocational training 
or an associate degree, and job zone 4, where 
workers have considerable preparation for the job. 
The lowest median wage premium gap is 27%, 
between job zone 4 and job zone 5, which is 
made up of primarily specialized roles that require 
extensive training, such as Pharmacists, Lawyers 
and Biologists. 
The mean wage premium is higher, averaging 
58% per job zone level, with the marginal premium 
spiking the jump from jobs requiring considerable 
preparation, such as Real Estate Brokers and 
Sales Managers, to specialized roles with 
extensive preparation, the highest level. 
The gap between the median and mean wage 
premium – the two curves in Figures B4.2A and 
B – indicates that there exists a wide pay range 
within the same job zone, and that wider pay 
ranges are more prevalent for workers in more 
specialized roles.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
59


Some preparation
Medium preparation
Considerable preparation
Extensive preparation
0
2
1
3
4
5
6
7
Cumulative wage premium
Source
ADP Research 
F I G U R E  B 4 . 2 A
mean
median
Cumulative wage premium = 1: wage is the same as the next lowest job zone (No preparation)
Cumulative wage premium by skill level
Ratio to the lowest job zone for mean and median gross wages.
Source
ADP Research 
F I G U R E  B 4 . 2 B
Some preparation
Medium preparation
Considerable preparation
Extensive preparation
0
1.6
1.2
1
0.8
0.4
2.0
Marginal wage premium
mean
median
Marginal wage premium = 1: wage is the same as the next lowest job zone
Marginal wage premium by skill level
Ratio to next-lowest job zone for mean and median of gross wages.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
60


Approaches to skills assessment
Removing academic degree requirements and 
conducting skill-based hiring is an increasingly 
recognized approach to expanding talent 
availability.45 As shown in Figure 4.12, work 
experience continues to be the most common 
assessment mechanism in hiring processes, with 
81% of businesses expecting to continue to rely on 
it over the 2025-2030 period. This is consistent with 
previous editions of the report, underlining the value 
employers place on practical, on-the-job learning 
and achievements. Only 4% of companies report 
that they do not assess the skills of prospective 
employees, highlighting that skills evaluation is 
almost universal across industries.
The second most common method of evaluation is 
skills assessments, expected to be utilized by 48% 
of employers, highlighting a growing emphasis on 
directly testing candidates’ competencies rather 
than relying solely on their resumes. In addition, 
psychometric tests are planned to be used by 34% 
of businesses, reflecting an increased focus on 
evaluating candidates’ behavioural traits, cognitive 
abilities and cultural fit. 
The requirement of a university degree features 
in third place of employers’ approaches to skills 
assessment, with 43% of respondents expecting to 
continue to use degrees as a requirement by 2030. 
Comparison with the previous edition of this report 
shows that employers are increasingly focusing on 
work experience and psychometric testing over 
traditional credentials like university degrees. This 
shift signals a growing recognition that practical 
skills and cognitive abilities may be more indicative 
of future job performance than formal educational 
qualifications, in addition to expanding the 
talent pool. O*NET’s database of job experience 
requirements reveals that 14 of the 15 fastest-
growing jobs over 2025 to 2030 primarily require 
a university degree, while only seven of the 15 
largest-growing roles demand an advanced degree. 
This reliance on traditional credentials in rapidly 
Assessing the wage premium for skills through a 
gender lens reveals that men tend to have a higher 
wage premium across all zone transitions except 
one. Men, on average, experience a 44% wage 
premium between job zones, whereas women see 
a 30% premium (Figure B4.3). 
Gender disparities are most pronounced at 
specific transitions. While male workers receive a 
wage premium of 39% at the point of transition 
from jobs that require little preparation to jobs 
that require some preparation, the equivalent 
wage premium for female workers is only 19%. 
At the upper end of the job complexity spectrum, 
women only receive a 15% higher wage for 
working in specialized jobs that require extensive 
preparation compared to jobs that require 
considerable preparation. This contrasts sharply 
with a 44% higher median wage at this transition 
point for men. 
0
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
male
female
Some preparation
Medium preparation
Considerable 
preparation
Extensive preparation
Cumulative wage premium
Source
ADP Research
Marginal wage premium: female vs. male workers
F I G U R E  B 4 . 3
Marginal wage premium (ratio to next-lowest job zone) for median of gross wages.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
61


expanding roles could exacerbate talent shortages. 
Adopting a skills-first approach can broaden talent 
pools and strengthen talent pipelines for these 
future roles.46 Moreover, the diverse requirements 
of the largest-growing jobs highlight the critical role 
of occupations that are often accessible through 
vocational training, apprenticeships, on-the-job 
experience, or associate degrees. 
However, the expected use of apprenticeships, 
short courses and online certificates in skills 
assessment has seen a slight decline since the 
report’s 2023 edition: 17% of employers anticipate 
prioritizing apprenticeships while 14% plan to 
consider online certificates in their hiring decisions.
Workforce strategies in response 
to AI adoption 
The Future of Jobs Survey finds that 86% of 
employers expect AI and information processing 
technologies to transform their business by 
2030. In the Financial Services (97%) and 
Electronics (95%) sectors, anticipated AI exposure 
is notably higher than the global average. By 
contrast, employers in sectors such as Energy 
Technology and Utilities (72%) and Government 
and Public Sector (76%) expect lower exposure 
to AI disruption by 2030. Larger organizations 
are considering it more likely that their business 
model will be transformed by AI: only 6% of 
companies with over 50,000 employees expect 
low AI exposure by 2030, compared to 16% of 
companies with fewer than 1,000 employees and 
15% of those with 1,000-5,000 employees.
Complementing the Future of Jobs Survey, the 
World Economic Forum’s Executive Opinion Survey 
captures insights from more than 11,000 executives 
worldwide. Regarding barriers to AI adoption, 
as presented in Figure 4.13, half of executives 
worldwide highlight a lack of skills to support 
adoption as the top barrier. This is closely followed 
by a lack of vision among managers and leaders 
(43%). Other obstacles include high costs of AI 
products and services (29%), lack of customization 
to local business needs (24%), complex regulations 
around AI and data usage (21%), and limited 
consumer demand (16%). Overall, these results 
point to a persistent gap in skills required for AI 
adoption, both for managers and workers. 
In response to expected AI disruption, reskilling 
and upskilling of the existing workforce to work 
more effectively alongside AI emerges as the most 
anticipated workforce strategy for companies 
headquartered in 45 out of the 55 economies 
covered by the report. By 2030, 77% of surveyed 
employers plan to implement this strategy (Figure 
4.14). 
In addition, 69% of respondents plan to recruit 
talent skilled in AI tool design and enhancement, 
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Skill assessment mechanisms, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 1 2
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
81%
48%
43%
34%
17%
14%
12%
4%
Share of employers surveyed which will prioritize the following ways to assess skills when hiring.
Evaluation of work experience
Pre-employment tests
Completion of a university degree
Psychometric proﬁling
Completion of apprenticeships
Completion of short courses and online certiﬁcates
Outsourcing to stafﬁng or recruitment ﬁrms
We do not assess skills
Future of Jobs Report 2025
62


Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Workforce strategy in response to AI, 2025-2030
F I G U R E  4 . 1 4
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
77%
69%
62%
49%
47%
41%
12%
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing capability and prevalence.
Reskilling and upskilling existing workforce 
to better work alongside AI
Hiring new people with skills to design AI tools and 
enhancements appropriate for organization-speciﬁc skills
Hiring new people with skills to better work alongside AI
Re-orienting organization to target new 
business opportunities created by AI
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will cause 
to decline, to other roles within organization
Downsizing workforce where AI can replicate people’s work
Organization has low exposure to AI
Share of employers surveyed (%)
0
40
60
80
100
20
Barriers to AI adoption
F I G U R E  4 . 1 3
Source
World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey 2024.
50%
43%
29%
24%
21%
16%
Share of employers expecting the stated barrier will hinder the adoption of AI among local businesses.
Lack of skills to support adoption
Lack of vision among the managers and leaders
High costs of available AI products and services
Lack of customization to local business needs
Complex and costly regulations around the use of AI and data
Lack of demand among consumers
and 62% anticipate focusing on hiring 
individuals with skills to work with AI. Almost 
half of organizations are expecting to reorient 
their business models toward new AI-driven 
opportunities (49%), while 47% plan to transition 
employees from AI-disrupted roles to other 
positions. While most employers plan to hire new 
people with AI relevant skills, a significant share 
(41%) also expect to downsize their workforce as AI 
capabilities to replicate roles expand. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
63


Relative AI job and skill concentration, by industry
B O X  4 . 3
In collaboration with LinkedIn
Analysis conducted by LinkedIn for the Future 
of Jobs Report 2025 assesses the relative AI 
job and skill concentration for 10 industries. 
This data is calculated by assessing the number 
of AI occupations and the number of LinkedIn 
members with at least two reported AI-related 
skills for each industry. As shown in Figure B4.4, 
to enable industry comparisons, each sector’s 
AI concentration is benchmarked against the 
2016 value of the industry with the highest AI 
concentration in 2016 (Education). 
This analysis helps illustrate which industries 
have seen the greatest AI uptake, in terms of AI-
related jobs and skills as well as AI concentration 
trends over time. While AI concentration has at 
least doubled across nearly all industries since 
2016, the relative ranking of industries has stayed 
largely stable. Over the last five years, the order 
of industries with the highest AI concentration has 
remained unchanged.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Education
Financial Services
Government Administration
Hospitals and Health Care
Manufacturing
Oil, Gas, and Mining
Professional Services
Technology, Information 
and Media
Transportation, Logistics, 
Supply Chain and Storage
Utilities
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2016
Growth (%)
Source
LinkedIn.
Growth in relative concentration of AI technologies, by industry, 2016-2024
F I G U R E  B 4 . 4
AI concentration by industry, relative to 2016 value of the leading industry (2016 value = 1).
Future of Jobs Report 2025
64


Region, economy and 
industry insights
The impact of macrotrends on labour markets over 
the 2025-2030 period will have both common and 
sector- and region/economy-specific characteristics 
across industries and geographies around the 
world. This chapter highlights key findings from 
the Future of Jobs Survey as they relate to the 
expected jobs landscape, anticipated skills needs 
and planned workforce strategies of employers at 
regional, economy and industry levels – and offers 
insights into how businesses in specific economies 
and sectors are navigating these transformations.
In addition to the insights presented in this chapter, 
Part 2 of the report provides detailed region, 
economy and industry profiles for all geographies 
and sectors featured in the report, and the 
corresponding data may also be accessed online, 
via an interactive data explorer tool, at: 
https://www.weforum.org/publications/the-futureof-
jobs-report-2025/future-of-jobs-data-explorer-2025.
Region and economy insights
Eastern Asia and Oceania
Companies headquartered in Eastern Asia expect 
aging and declining working-age populations 
and slower economic growth to transform the 
region’s labour markets by 2030. Organizational 
culture and resistance to change are perceived as 
a significant barrier to business transformation by 
64% of employers in the region, above the global 
average of 46%. Industry talent shortages are 
likewise seen as a key barrier to transformation by 
53% of companies. To address these challenges, 
businesses operating in China and Republic of 
Korea are investing in technologies to automate and 
augment their workforce, while those operating in 
Japan and Hong Kong SAR, China, are increasingly 
tapping into diverse talent pools. 
Over the next five years, more than half of 
companies operating in China expect geoeconomic 
fragmentation and increased efforts in climate 
mitigation to shape their businesses, above a 
global average of 34% and 47%, respectively. More 
than 90% of employers identify AI and robotics as 
key technologies to transform their organization, 
while 43% identify new materials and 19% identify 
biotechnology, a higher share than their global 
peers (30% and 11%, respectively). Industry talent 
shortages are highlighted by 38% of businesses 
operating in the country. According to more 
than half of employers, government’s funding for 
reskilling and upskilling and increased flexibility 
on hiring and firing practices could contribute to 
increase talent availability, while only 9% expect 
to see benefits from increased public support for 
caregivers.
In Hong Kong SAR, China, 60% of businesses 
include increased focus on labour and social issues 
among the top trends impacting their organization, 
which is significantly higher than the global average 
of 46%. This is followed by broadening digital 
access (60%) and increased climate-mitigation 
efforts (56%). Technology is seen as central to 
workforce planning, with 76% of companies aiming 
to augment their workforce using new technologies. 
Businesses operating in Hong Kong SAR, China 
expect 43% of tasks to be completed primarily by 
technology by 2030, surpassing the global estimate 
of 34%. Efforts to broaden hiring are evident, as 
76% of employers plan to tap into diverse talent 
pools, compared to 47% globally. Moreover, 82% 
of businesses are planning to implement targeted 
recruitment, retention, and progression initiatives, 
exceeding the global average of 48%.
Overall, 69% of employers in Japan highlight 
ageing and declining working-age populations as a 
critical trend impacting their organization by 2030, 
exceeding the global average of 40%. According to 
55% of respondents, cultural resistance to change 
remains a barrier to business transformation, 
alongside skills gaps (41%) and industry talent 
shortages (49%). Information Security Analysts 
and Data Analysts and Scientists are projected 
to be among the top growing jobs in the country. 
In response, businesses operating in the country 
are planning to prioritize access to diverse talent 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
5
5.1
Future of Jobs Report 2025
65


and supporting reskilling. Employers also share 
expectations for greater government involvement in 
provisioning and funding of reskilling and upskilling.
Geoeconomic fragmentation and advances in 
frontier technologies are likely to drive labour-market 
transformation in Republic of Korea in the next five 
years: 71% of companies operating in the country 
highlight increased geopolitical tensions as a key 
trend impacting their business, more than twice 
the global average, and 53% mention increased 
restrictions to global trade. Businesses in Republic 
of Korea are ahead of global peers in technologies 
such as semiconductors and new materials. Talent 
shortages at the industry level are a concern for 
47% of respondents. Companies are planning 
on addressing skills gaps by hiring staff with 
emerging skills (92%) and adopting technologies 
to augment the workforce (83%). Additionally, 
employers operating in Republic of Korea plan to 
explore workforce strategies such as supplementing 
childcare for working parents (50%) to attract and 
retain talent.
Businesses operating in Australia foresee 
a complex mix of technological, green and 
demographic transitions, as well as geoeconomic 
fragmentation: 65% of employers identify skills 
gaps, while 45% view inability to attract talent to the 
industry as a key business challenge over the 2025-
2030 period. To address the increasing need for 
skilled talent, 45% of respondents hope for changes 
to immigration policies to attract global talent, 
compared to a global average of 26%. Additionally, 
49% of businesses operating in Australia anticipate 
offering cross-border remote work options, nearly 
double the global average, and 63% identify tapping 
into diverse talent pools as an effective approach to 
increasing talent availability in the country.
South-Eastern Asia
Advances in technology, uncertain economic 
outlook and increasing geoeconomic fragmentation 
are foreseen to be shaping labour markets in 
South-Eastern Asia over the 2025-2030 period. 
To prepare for these disruptions and meet emerging 
business needs, employers headquartered in the 
region are particularly focused on upskilling their 
workforce (96%, compared to 85% globally) and 
hiring staff with new skills (86%, compared to 
70% globally), with a large number of businesses 
in Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines also 
expecting to address these challenges by facilitating 
internal job transitions. Finding skilled talent 
continues to be seen as a main barrier to business 
transformation, with employers in Singapore and 
Viet Nam, in particular, calling for policy reforms to 
expand the talent base in these countries. 
Digitalization is perceived as the most important 
driver of labour-market transformation in Indonesia 
by 2030, with 83% of businesses operating in 
the country expecting this trend to impact their 
organization, compared to 60% globally. Forty-
one percent of employers also highlight increased 
restrictions on trade and investment as a key 
trend impacting their businesses, which is almost 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
66


twice the global average. A higher share than 
global peers aim to leverage new materials and 
composites (52%) as well as sensing, laser and 
optical technologies (39%). Workforce strategies are 
expected to focus on transitioning employees from 
declining to growing roles, with AI Specialists and 
Sustainability Specialists leading job growth, and 
administrative and data entry roles in decline. 
Overall, companies operating in Malaysia 
expect increased restrictions on global trade and 
investment (45%), alongside a heightened focus 
on government subsidies and industrial policy 
(34%) and stricter anti-trust regulations (31%) to 
drive transformation of their businesses by 2030. 
These responses are all above the respective 
global averages. Employers also regard broadening 
digital access as a key driver of transformation, 
highlighted by 79% of respondents. In response 
to these disruptions, businesses in Malaysia are 
exploring distinct approaches to reskilling: While 
most organizations anticipate self-funding their 
training programmes, 32% of reskilling efforts are 
expected to be co-funded across the industry, 
twice the global level. In addition, 35% of employers 
in the country plan to consider completion of short 
courses and online certifications when assessing 
skills of job candidates, more than twice the global 
average (14%).
Broadening digital access and climate mitigation 
and adaptation efforts are expected to jointly shape 
labour-market dynamics in the Philippines by 
2030. With two-thirds of employers in the country 
identifying skills gaps as a barrier over the next 
half decade, businesses are planning to scale up 
their reskilling efforts: 68% of Filipino workers are 
expected to require training to meet evolving skill 
demands (compared to 59% globally), but only 38% 
of workers are reported to have completed training 
today (compared to 50% globally). Employers 
operating in the Philippines anticipate that almost 
three in 10 workers will be upskilled and then re-
deployed to new roles. 
In Singapore, 64% of employers operating in 
the country expect their business to be impacted 
by geoeconomic fragmentation, twice the global 
average. Similar to global and regional peers, firms 
in Singapore expect skills gaps, regulatory barriers 
and organizational resistance to hinder business 
transformation. Notably, 97% of companies plan to 
prioritize upskilling as their key workforce strategy, 
significantly above global levels. Hiring staff with 
emerging skills and process automation are also 
among anticipated key workforce strategies. While 
a skills-first approach is perceived as having the 
potential to expand Singapore’s talent pool, 58% of 
employers expect to continue prioritizing university 
degrees in hiring decisions, which is higher than the 
43% global average.
Economic uncertainty is top of mind for employers 
operating in Thailand, with 73% of respondents 
expecting slower growth to impact their business 
by 2030 – above the global average of 42% – and 
rising inflation and climate-mitigation efforts among 
other anticipated key trends. Talent acquisition 
is seen as challenging, with 62% of respondents 
facing difficulty attracting talent to their industry 
and 46% to their firms. Employers in Thailand 
are increasingly planning on leveraging diversity, 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
67


equity and inclusion programmes (64%) and 
supplementing childcare for working parents 
(45%).  With regard to public policies, funding for 
reskilling and upskilling and flexibility on hiring and 
firing practices are seen as the two most beneficial 
policies to expand the talent base. 
A majority of companies operating in Viet Nam 
expect increased digitalization, climate mitigation 
action and higher cost of living to shape the 
transformation of their business models over the 
2025-2030 period. About one in two employers 
also highlights restrictions on global trade and 
investment among the most impactful trends for 
their business, twice the global average of 23%. For 
more than 60% of firms in the country, adapting to 
these trends is perceived to be made more difficult 
by existing skills gaps in the labour market, while 
55% of respondents mention inadequate data and 
technical infrastructure and 41% point to limited 
understanding of emerging opportunities. To close 
skills gaps, a majority of employers in the country 
expect the most impactful public-policy measures 
to be increased public funding for reskilling and 
upskilling as well as more flexible hiring and 
firing practices. Half of respondents also point to 
adjustments to immigration laws (50%, compared 
to 26% globally) and retirement ages (46%, 
compared to 25% globally).
Central Asia and Southern Asia
Increased digital access, geopolitical tensions and 
climate-mitigation efforts are the primary trends 
expected to shape the future of jobs in India by 
2030. Similar to their global peers, companies 
operating in the country are heavily investing 
in AI, robotics and autonomous systems, and 
energy technologies. Employers in India are also 
planning to outpace global adoption in certain 
technologies, with 35% expecting semiconductors 
and computing technologies and 21% expecting 
quantum and encryption to transform their 
operations. The country’s projected fastest-
growing job roles – including Big Data Specialists, 
AI and Machine Learning Specialists, and Security 
Management Specialists – align closely with these 
trends. To address talent needs, companies 
operating in India expect tapping into diverse 
talent pools (67%, compared to 47% globally) and 
adopting skills-based hiring by removing degree 
requirements (30%, compared to 19% globally) to 
be effective.
Companies operating in Kazakhstan expect 
broadening digital access, rising cost of living 
and slower economic growth to significantly 
impact their business models in the next five 
years. Technological trends related to AI, robotics 
and autonomous systems are also expected to 
have a significant – although lower than global 
average – impact, with energy generation, storage 
and distribution identified as the second-most 
impactful technological trend (highlighted by 54% of 
respondents). Skills gaps in the labour market are 
top-of-mind for seven in 10 firms in the country.
Addressing skills gaps in the labour market is 
identified as a primary challenge to business 
transformation over the 2025 to 2030 period 
in Uzbekistan. While 71% of employers in the 
country expect improvements in talent retention, 
significantly above the global average, there remains 
strong need for reskilling and upskilling the current 
workforce. Overall, only 22% of Uzbekistan’s 
workforce today is expected to be able to upskill in 
their current role, with an additional 14% projected 
to be upskilled and then re-deployed, both of which 
are lower figures than global averages at 29% and 
19%, respectively. Fifty-two percent of employers 
anticipate implementing strategies for reskilling 
their workforce to work alongside AI. Skills such 
as programming, teaching and mentoring, and 
multilingualism have higher-than-global projected 
demand increases.
Middle East and Northern Africa
Companies headquartered in the Middle East and 
Northern Africa region are more positive about 
talent availability by 2030 than their global peers, 
with 46% of employers expecting the hiring outlook 
to improve. Employers in the region, notably in 
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, are also 
planning on accelerating automation. With 46% of 
on-the-job skills projected to change, compared to 
39% worldwide, the region’s rate of skill disruption 
is most pronounced in countries such as Egypt 
and Bahrain, highlighting the need for reskilling and 
upskilling at a time of multi-dimensional change.
Only 5% of firms operating in Bahrain identify 
aging and declining working-age populations as a 
transformative trend by 2030, compared to 40% of 
respondents globally. Talent availability is expected 
to remain stable, with only 8% of employers 
anticipating a deterioration, which is far below the 
global average. However, two-thirds of employers 
expect skills gaps in the labour market to remain 
the top barrier to business transformation. Twenty-
four percent of Bahrain’s employees are expected 
to be able to upskill in their current roles, and an 
additional 14% to be redeployed after upskilling; 
both figures are below global averages. To attract 
skilled talent, employers in the country are focused 
on improving working hours and overtime policies 
and expecting to leverage government wage 
subsidies. 
In Egypt, rising cost of living, slower economic 
growth and broadening digital access are the key 
trends expected to influence the labour market by 
2030. Fifty-five percent of employers operating in 
the country expect talent availability to improve, 
significantly above global average, in spite of 
a heightened rate of skill disruption, as 48% of 
on-the-job skills of the Egyptian workforce are 
projected to change over the next half-decade 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
68


(compared to 39% globally). Upskilling emerges as 
the most-anticipated workforce strategy. Compared 
to global averages, companies see an increasing 
need for skills in resource management and 
operations (43%, compared to 24% globally) and 
reading, writing and mathematics.
Amidst geopolitical tensions, a majority of 
employers operating in Israel highlight broadening 
digital access and rising cost of living as key 
drivers of business transformation by 2030. Forty-
six percent of firms in the country also identify 
increased focus on labour and social issues as a 
key trend, and a similar number expect stricter anti-
trust and competition regulations to impact their 
business models; this rate is significantly above the 
global average of 17%. By 2030, anticipated key 
workforce strategies for firms in Israel include hiring 
talent with emerging skills, accelerating automation, 
and upskilling employees: 80% of employers 
are planning on re-orienting their operations to 
capitalize on new AI-driven business opportunities. 
Skills such as resilience, flexibility and agility are 
seen as increasingly in demand, alongside systems 
thinking.
Businesses operating in Morocco identify the green 
transition and uncertain economic conditions as the 
key forces shaping labour-market transformation 
by 2030. Skills gaps and internal resistance 
to change are perceived as the top barriers to 
business transformation. Employers in Morocco are 
expecting increasing demand for skills in AI and big 
data, creative thinking, and leadership and social 
influence over the next five years. Talent availability 
might benefit from a stronger focus on tapping into 
diverse talent pools, a workforce strategy envisaged 
by 24% of firms in the country, compared to 47% 
globally. Efforts by employers to address the 
country’s youth unemployment are evident, as 86% 
of businesses plan to prioritize youth as part of their 
diversity, equity and inclusion measures, which is 
significantly above the global average.
As the country continues to pursue economic 
transformation, Saudi Arabia’s labour market is 
expected to be shaped by increased digitalization, 
geoeconomic fragmentation and rising cost of 
living over the 2025 to 2030 period. Companies 
operating in the country anticipate a focus on 
technology adoption, aiming particularly to 
automate existing tasks, with the proportion of 
total work tasks mainly delivered autonomously by 
technology projected to reach 45% by 2030, above 
global averages. As employers in Saudi Arabia 
scale up technology investments, over 70% identify 
technological literacy as a skill on the rise in the 
country, followed by demand for skills in networks 
and cybersecurity and AI and big data. Workforce 
strategies are expected to be dynamic: 38% of 
companies operating in Saudi Arabia expecting 
to remove degree requirements to improve talent 
availability, compared to a global average of 19%.
Addressing skills gaps is seen as a critical priority 
in Tunisia, with 80% of companies operating in the 
country identifying skills gaps as the top barrier to 
business transformation by 2030 and 86% aiming 
to upskill their workforce to respond to key business 
trends. Employers in Tunisia see a particularly strong 
increase in demand for skills in leadership and social 
influence, creative thinking, and AI and big data skills. 
Demand for programming skills is also on the rise, 
with 72% of firms identifying it as a growth area. 
Seven out of 10 employers plan to fund internally 
their training needs, and about 41% aim to leverage 
hybrid, public-private, co-funding models. 
In the United Arab Emirates, companies are 
expecting increased digitalization and efforts 
to adapt to and mitigate climate change to 
significantly impact their business models by 
2030. Focus on technological shifts is reflected 
in increasing adoption of technology in day-to-
day operations, with the proportion of total work 
tasks predominantly delivered by autonomous 
technologies projected to reach 43% over the next 
five years, above an expected rate of 34% globally. 
Companies operating in the country expect rising 
demand for technological literacy, with 87% of 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
69


respondents emphasizing increased need for this 
skill. Other growing skills include AI and big data, 
networks and cybersecurity as well as leadership 
and social influence. 
Sub-Saharan Africa
In Sub-Saharan Africa, 64% of businesses expect 
increasing focus on labour and social issues to be a 
key trend impacting their business strategy over the 
2025-2030 period, followed by rising cost of living 
and broadening digital access (both highlighted by 
59% of respondents). Companies headquartered in 
the region are navigating significant transformation 
barriers, including perceived widespread skills gaps 
and shortage of investment capital. Employers in 
Nigeria and Zimbabwe are anticipating stepping 
up efforts on workforce development over the 
next five years, while their South African peers are 
planning to invest in diversity, equity and inclusiont 
programmes to improve access to skilled talent. 
Skills gaps and challenges in attracting talent 
are expected to be key barriers to business 
transformation in Nigeria over the next five years. 
As the country develops its Business Process 
Outsourcing (BPO) industry and creates more 
digital jobs, network and cybersecurity skills are 
projected to be the fastest-growing skills in demand 
in the country, with 87% of employers reporting 
an increasing need by 2030 (compared to a global 
average of 70% of respondents). This is followed 
by anticipated employer demand for skills in AI and 
big data as well as systems thinking. Additionally, 
service orientation and customer service as well 
as global citizenship skills are expected to exhibit 
higher-than-global demand. To help address these 
talent and skills gaps, 73% of firms operating 
in Nigeria see benefit in increased public-sector 
funding for reskilling and upskilling programmes, 
while 40% state that improving transport services 
and infrastructure would be equally important to 
support talent availability. 
More than 60% of businesses operating in South 
Africa identify skills gaps as a key barrier to 
business transformation by 2030, followed by 
organizational culture and resistance to change 
(43%). With jobs such as AI and Machine Learning 
Specialists and Robotics Engineers on the rise, 
companies are planning to upskill employees 
and hire talent with new skills to meet evolving 
business needs. To expand their talent pool and 
improve skills matching, 34% of companies plan 
to remove degree requirements, creating more 
accessible pathways to emerging jobs. In addition, 
many employers in South Africa expect to focus on 
diversity, equity and inclusion, with 55% anticipating 
targeting individuals from disadvantaged religious or 
ethnic and racial backgrounds, and 41% those from 
low-income backgrounds, compared to 27% and 
24%, respectively, globally. 
In Zimbabwe, nearly half of on-the-job skills are 
expected to change over the next five years, higher 
than the global average of 39%. Accordingly, 90% 
of employers have plans to upskill their existing 
workforce. Skills like systems thinking, marketing 
and media, customer service, dependability and 
attention to detail, quality control, and global 
citizenship are all increasing in demand more rapidly 
than global averages. Finally, 70% of respondents 
see benefit in public-policy interventions to improve 
the education system to better equip the workforce 
for future demands, above a global average of 47%.
Europe
Digitalization, climate mitigation and rising cost of 
living are the key trends expected to impact labour-
market transformation in Europe over the 2025-
2030 period. As companies headquartered in the 
region aim to adjust to these trends, skills gaps and 
talent shortages in the labour market remain a key 
barrier: 54% of employers expect talent availability 
to worsen, significantly above the global average. 
Austria’s labour market is anticipated to change 
over the next five years, as businesses plan to 
adapt their strategies in response to growth of the 
digital economy, rising cost of living, and increased 
investments in climate adaptation. With a majority 
of businesses planning to prioritize automating 
processes and tasks as a key workforce strategy, 
employers operating in Austria are ahead of many 
global peers in human-technology collaboration: 
42% of all human work tasks are projected to be 
augmented by technology by 2030 (compared to a 
global average of 33%). Demand for skills such as 
motivation and self-awareness is on the rise, with 
60% of employers predicting a net increase in their 
importance.
By 2030, companies operating in Belgium expect 
to see their business models transformed by 
climate-mitigation efforts, an aging population and 
rising cost of living. Reflecting these trends, Belgian 
employers report growing demand for skills such 
as environmental stewardship (75%, compared 
to 53% globally) and talent management (69%, 
compared to 58%). Companies also plan to adopt 
business practices to boost talent availability, with 
85% anticipating investing in reskilling and upskilling 
programmes, 78% supporting employee health and 
well-being, and nearly half (48%) facilitating remote 
work across national borders – all figures are above 
global averages.
In Czechia, businesses anticipate navigating the 
green transition, demographic shifts, and the 
digital transformation of industries. Over the next 
five years, over 80% of employers operating in the 
country plan to focus their workforce strategies 
on automation and upskilling, while 76% aim to 
prioritize transitioning staff from declining to growing 
roles, a higher share than global average. The 
labour market is expected to remain tight: only 6% 
of companies anticipate improvements in talent 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
70


availability, compared to a global average of 29%. 
Further, 70% of employers hope to improve their 
talent pipeline by investing in reskilling and upskilling 
of their current workforce, while 65% plan to offer 
higher wages to become more attractive.
By 2030, employers in Denmark expect to see 
business transformation in light of increased 
investments in climate adaptation, greater 
emphasis on labour and social issues, and growing 
geoeconomic fragmentation, while they express 
less focus than their global peers on digitalization 
and inflation as potential drivers of change. 
Denmark’s labour market is projected to exhibit 
a higher degree of skill stability than most other 
countries, with 71% of today’s on-the-job skills 
expected to remain stable, compared to 61% 
globally. Skills relevant to AI and big data, networks 
and cybersecurity, as well as curiosity and lifelong 
learning are expected to increase in use. Global 
citizenship skills are also set to grow in importance 
by 2030, with 47% of employers operating in 
Denmark projecting a net increase in demand, 
compared to 19% globally.
An aging and shrinking workforce, slower economic 
growth, and a growing focus on labour and social 
issues are identified as key trends impacting 
businesses in Estonia by 2030. Compared to 
global averages, businesses operating in Estonia 
are less focused on the green transition, with 
only 29% expecting their business models to be 
significantly impacted by investments in carbon 
reduction and 21% by climate adaptation. Overall, 
79% of employers identify skills gaps in the labour 
market as a primary barrier to transformation, which 
is above the global average. Firms in Estonia plan 
to address these talent and skill challenges through 
business practices such as reskilling and upskilling 
and supporting employee well-being. 
Employers in France expect their business models 
to be impacted by digital transformation, climate-
mitigation efforts, and rising cost of living. To 
address these trends, companies are planning on 
prioritizing upskilling and hiring talent with emerging 
skill sets, alongside accelerating automation. 
A significant 71% of employers are focused on 
complementing and augmenting their workforce 
with new technologies, above the global average 
of 63%. By 2030, demand is expected to grow for 
roles such as Security Management Specialists, 
Digital Transformation Specialists, and Software 
Developers, while jobs such as Material-Recording 
and Stock-Keeping Clerks and Data Entry Clerks 
are projected to decline in the country.
By 2030, companies in Germany expect their 
business models to be re-shaped by increasing 
digitalization, climate-mitigation efforts and ongoing 
geoeconomic fragmentation. For example, 52% of 
employers operating in Germany are anticipating 
impacts from growing geopolitical divisions, above 
the global average of 34%. Businesses are planning 
to embrace technologies to stay competitive, with 
93% expecting that AI and information processing 
tools, and 67% that robots and autonomous 
systems, will be transformative to their operations. 
To prepare for these changes, 81% of companies 
plan to actively hire staff with new capabilities. 
Examples of growing roles in the country include 
Software Developers, UI/UX Designers, and AI and 
Machine Learning Specialists.
Broadening digital access and rising cost of living 
are the top trends expected to shape business 
transformation in Greece by 2030. Sixty-three 
percent of employers in Greece also identify 
growing focus on labour and social issues as a 
key source of transformation for their organization, 
above the global average of 46%. More than 
half of companies operating in the country have 
identified skills gaps in the labour market and 
inability to attract talent to their industry as key 
barriers to business transformation. To improve 
talent availability, a large majority (82%) of firms 
identifies increased public funding for reskilling and 
upskilling as a key policy priority, and 64% call 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
71


for government support through wage subsidies; 
both exceed global averages. Additionally, 46% 
of employers suggest that changes to pension 
regulations and retirement ages could increase 
talent availability over the next five years. For their 
part, 92% of companies plan to strengthen their 
own talent retention by improving talent progression 
and promotion.
In Hungary, rising cost of living, increasing 
digitalization, and an aging and shrinking population 
are expected to shape business models and labour-
market outcomes by 2030. A significant 70% 
of employers identify inflation as a top concern, 
above the global average of 50%. Talent availability 
is highlighted as a concern, with 77% of firms 
operating in the country foreseeing difficulties when 
hiring. Almost 80% of businesses are planning to 
offer remote and hybrid work opportunities within 
the country and nearly 40% envisage doing so 
across national borders, with almost 70% pointing 
to more flexible regulation on this matter as a 
promising public policy to support talent availability 
in the country. 
Anticipating labour-market changes due to 
increased investment in climate adaptation 
and growing focus on labour and social issues, 
companies in Ireland identify talent attraction as 
a key barrier to business transformation by 2030. 
Alongside skills gaps, 43% of employers operating 
in the country expect difficulties in drawing the 
right talent to their firms, compared to a global 
average of 27%. To address talent shortages, 40% 
of companies plan to provide additional support to 
workers with caregiving responsibilities, and 27% 
highlight the effectiveness of additional funding for 
government programmes supporting caregivers. 
Employers in Ireland are also expanding their 
diversity, equity and inclusion measures, with 73% 
conducting pay equity reviews, 53% establishing 
employee resource groups, and 40% employing 
diversity, equity and inclusion officers. Additionally, 
69% of respondents state a commitment to 
reducing wage inequalities.
By 2030, employers operating in Italy expect 
business model transformation in response to 
increased climate-mitigation efforts, continued 
digitalization and rising cost of living. In particular, 
70% anticipate changes due to investments to 
reduce carbon emissions, compared to a global 
average of 47%. Employers in Italy project net job 
growth in Robotics Engineers, Renewable Energy 
Engineers, and Environmental Engineers, driving 
increasing demand for skills such as AI, networks, 
cybersecurity and environmental stewardship. To 
adapt to these trends, 85% of respondents aim to 
upskill their workforce and 73% plan to enhance 
their workforce through technology augmentation. 
Employers in Latvia are anticipating labour-
market changes over the next five years due to 
aging and shrinking population, rising cost of 
living, and stronger focus on labour and social 
issues. Diverging from global trends, businesses 
operating in the country expect to see lower levels 
of disruption from broadening digital access and 
investments in carbon reduction and climate 
adaptation. Talent availability is a stated concern, 
with 71% of employers expecting hiring challenges. 
In response, companies in Latvia are planning 
to emphasize workforce strategies such as 
accelerating automation and upskilling to mitigate 
talent shortages.
In Lithuania, employers identify rising cost of living, 
aging and shrinking population, and broadening 
digital access as the top three drivers of labour-
market changes by 2030. Skills gaps are perceived 
as a significant barrier to business transformation, 
with 83% of firms operating in the country citing 
this issue, compared to a global average of 63%. 
To address these trends, 86% of firms in Lithuania 
plan on investing in reskilling and upskilling. Seven 
in 10 respondents plan to support employee health 
and well-being while six in 10 aim to improve talent 
progression and promotion processes in order to 
increase talent availability. Anticipated workforce 
strategies also focus on automation and hiring 
talent with emerging skills to keep pace with 
evolving business needs.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
72


Talent shortages at the industry level are expected 
to be a key challenge in the Netherlands over 
the 2025-2030 period: 56% of firms operating in 
the country expect hiring difficulties, while only 
15% foresee improvements in talent availability. 
In response, 86% of businesses are planning on 
accelerating the automation of processes and 
tasks as a key workforce strategy to address talent 
shortages, a higher level than their global peers. 
Upskilling (envisaged by 83% of respondents) and 
recruiting talent with new skills (anticipated by 71%) 
are also areas of focus. Furthermore, companies 
in the Netherlands plan to utilize diversity, equity 
and inclusion efforts to expand their talent base, 
with 64% of firms expecting to set specific goals 
and 46% to embed diversity, equity and inclusion 
initiatives across their supply chains.
By 2030, employers in Norway expect their 
business models to be significantly impacted by 
the green and digital transitions. Alongside AI and 
big data, curiosity and lifelong learning, resilience, 
flexibility, and agility are expected to be skills 
with increasing demand, with more employers 
emphasizing these competencies than in other 
countries. Seventy-four percent of companies 
operating in Norway highlight the benefits of public 
funding for reskilling and upskilling, exceeding the 
global average. Furthermore, three in every five 
respondents plan to expand their talent base by 
leveraging diversity, equity and inclusion policies, 
surpassing global averages. Additionally, a lower 
proportion of companies in Norway anticipates 
wages to account for a growing share of their total 
revenue over the next five years (26%, compared 
to 52% globally) and a higher proportion anticipates 
the reverse (22%, compared to 8% globally).
In Poland, broadening digital access is expected 
to be the predominant trend driving shifts in the 
labour market by 2030. The impact of this trend is 
evident in firms’ expectations regarding changing 
skills demand, with employers unanimously 
anticipating increased need for AI and big data 
skills. Talent availability is also seen as a concern, 
with 52% of employers operating in the country 
expecting aging and shrinking workforce to impact 
their business over the next five years and 65% 
foreseeing hiring challenges. To address these 
issues, companies in Poland see potential in 
supporting employee health and well-being and 
expanding remote and hybrid work options within 
the country to attract and retain talent.
In Portugal, 71% of the workforce is expected to 
require training by 2030, above the global average 
of 58%. Key skills in demand over the next five 
years are anticipated to include curiosity and 
lifelong learning, talent management, and leadership 
and social influence. Skills such as teaching and 
mentoring as well as resource management are 
also increasingly sought after in the country. Firms 
operating in Portugal plan to invest in reskilling 
and upskilling, with 87% of employers expecting 
improved talent retention and 73% transitioning 
employees to new or evolving roles. Forty percent 
of respondents regard government as a key funding 
source for their reskilling and upskilling efforts, 
which is twice the global average.
Broadening digital access, rising cost of living, and 
growing geoeconomic fragmentation are seen to 
be shaping the labour market in Romania over the 
2025-2030 period. One out of three companies 
operating in the country also cite stricter anti-trust 
and competition regulations as a factor impacting 
their business models in the next five years, nearly 
twice the global average. Seventy-six percent of 
businesses in Romania identify skills gaps in the 
labour market as a key barrier to transformation, 
alongside challenges related to talent attraction 
to industry. To address these concerns, 94% of 
employers are planning on investing in workforce 
upskilling, a higher share than their global peers 
(85%). Firms in the country also anticipate hiring 
staff with new skills (79%) and accelerating 
automation (68%) as key workforce strategies in the 
next half-decade. 
Rising cost of living and increased digitalization 
are expected to be key trends impacting 
businesses operating in Serbia over the next five 
years. In addition to skills in AI and big data and 
technological literacy, talent management and 
resource management are the skills anticipated to 
be most in demand in the country. Two-thirds of 
employers identify skills gaps in the labour market 
as a key barrier for transforming their business. With 
regard to policies seen as effective to improve talent 
availability, 67% of firms point to increased flexibility 
in hiring and firing practices and 50% to wage 
subsidies, both above global averages. 
In Slovenia, demographic shifts are identified 
as top-of-mind by employers, with 68% and 
45%, respectively, identifying aging and shrinking 
workforces in some parts of the world and growing 
working-age populations in others as key trends 
impacting business models over the next five years. 
Both shares are above the global average. Skills 
gaps in the labour market are seen as a key barrier to 
transformation by two-thirds of companies operating 
in the country, followed by organizational culture and 
resistance to change. To improve talent availability, 
71% of employers suggest considering more flexible 
policies regarding hiring and firing, while 50% point to 
reforming immigration laws. Seven in 10 firms plan to 
offer higher wages and nearly six in 10 plan to review 
working hours and overtime policies to improve their 
attractiveness as employers.
Increasing investments in carbon reduction, 
broadening digital access, and rising cost of 
living are expected to shape the labour market in 
Spain over the 2025-2030 period. Key barriers to 
transformation perceived by respondents include 
skills gaps, regulatory frameworks, and resistance 
to change and organizational cultures. To address 
talent availability challenges via public policy, 60% 
of employers in Spain see potential in increased 
flexibility in hiring and firing practices, and 49% in 
increased flexibility in setting wages, in addition to 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
73


public funding for reskilling and upskilling (65%). 
Regarding business practices, 77% of respondents 
plan to enhance progression and promotion 
processes to become more attractive as employers. 
Moreover, an above-global-average share of 
employers operating in the country plan to offer 
remote and hybrid work opportunities and provide 
support for workers with caregiving responsibilities. 
By 2030, Sweden’s employers anticipate 
business transformation in response to broadening 
digitalization, demographic shifts and rising cost 
of living. About 50% identify aging and shrinking 
workforces in some parts of the world as a key 
trend, while 41% highlight growing working-age 
populations elsewhere. Only 5% of firms operating 
in the country expect hiring conditions to improve 
over the next five years, significantly below the 
global average. In response, employers are planning 
on enhancing talent progression and promotion 
processes, expanding remote and hybrid work 
options, and investing in reskilling and upskilling to 
increase talent availability.
In Switzerland, continuous digitalization is seen as 
the key driver of business transformation by 2030, 
followed by climate mitigation and adaptation. 
This is reflected in 96% of companies expecting 
AI and information processing technologies to 
transform their operations. Workforce strategies 
are anticipated to focus on automation, upskilling, 
and hiring talent with emerging skills, with 73% of 
businesses actively integrating new technologies to 
complement and augment their human workforce. 
However, talent retention is seen as a concern, with 
36% of employers expecting retention to worsen, 
nearly twice the global average. To address these 
challenges, firms in Switzerland plan to place a 
bigger emphasis on flexibility in the workplace than 
their global peers and to increase talent availability 
through remote work options across national 
borders and support for workers with caregiving 
responsibilities. 
Broadening digital access is expected to drive 
labour market change in Türkiye over the 2025-
2030 period, with firms operating in the country 
anticipating technologies such as AI, robotics and 
energy technologies  to transform their operations. 
These expectations are reflected in the list of 
predicted fastest-growing job roles in the country, 
which includes Robotics Engineers, Renewable 
Energy Engineers, and Autonomous and Electric 
Vehicle Specialists. Employers anticipate 44% 
of on-the-job skills to be disrupted by 2030, 
higher than the global average of 39%. AI and big 
data, technological literacy, and networks and 
cybersecurity are identified as the fastest-growing 
skills in the country, in addition to a higher-than-
average expected growth in the importance of 
multilingualism.
In the United Kingdom, the labour market is 
expected to be influenced by increased digitalization 
as well as climate mitigation and adaptation 
efforts over the next five years: 56% of companies 
operating in the country anticipate seeing their 
business transformed because of increased 
investments in climate adaptation, a higher 
share than their global peers. Fifty-six percent of 
employers also expect geoeconomic fragmentation 
to impact their business strategy, compared to 
34% globally. As a result of these perceived trends, 
respondents expect rising demand for skills such 
as technological literacy, AI, big data and resilience, 
flexibility and agility. Key job roles anticipated to 
see significant growth by 2030 include Big Data 
Specialists, FinTech Engineers, and AI and Machine 
Learning Specialists.
Northern America
Technological advancements, demographic shifts, 
and economic uncertainties are driving strategic 
decisions of companies headquartered in Northern 
America. A higher share of employers in this part 
of the world is evaluating options in both offshoring 
(23%) and re-shoring (19%), pointing to a possibility 
of wider global supply chain re-organization. 
Additionally, companies in the region share a 
higher-than-average focus on diversity, equity and 
inclusion, including through measures such as pay-
equity audits. Only 35% of companies in Northern 
America anticipate an increase in wages as a share 
of total revenues (compared to 52% globally). As 
macrotrend-driven disruptions reshape the jobs and 
skills landscape, 67% of the workforce in the region 
is projected to require upskilling or reskilling by 
2030, a rate exceeding the global average.
Employers in Canada are anticipating an evolving 
business landscape marked by advances in digital 
technologies, geoeconomic fragmentation, and 
increased climate-mitigation efforts by 2030. 
Reflecting these trends, 97% of companies expect 
AI and information processing technologies 
to transform their operations. Robotics and 
autonomous systems, along with energy generation 
and storage technologies, are also expected to 
gain traction. Demand for job roles such as Security 
Management Specialists, AI and Machine Learning 
Specialists, and Software Developers is expected 
to be on the rise. To ensure a steady talent pipeline, 
employers in Canada are looking to bolster talent 
progression and promotion processes and investing 
in reskilling and upskilling. 
In the United States, technological trends 
and climate adaptation are expected to shape 
business and workforce strategies over the 
2025-2030 period: 55% of employers highlight 
climate adaptation as a key trend expected to 
influence business models. Additionally, 94% 
of firms in the United States expect AI and 
information processing technologies to transform 
their operations in the next five years. Big Data 
Specialists, AI and Machine Learning Specialists 
and Data Warehousing Specialists are anticipated 
to be among the fastest-growing jobs in the 
country. However, roles such as Data Entry Clerks 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
74


and Software Testers are seen as in decline as 
automation reshapes the workforce. To enhance 
talent availability, respondents see potential in 
government support for reskilling and upskilling 
programmes as well as increased flexibility in hiring 
and firing practices.
Latin America and the Caribbean
Companies headquartered in Latin America and 
the Caribbean expect increased digitalization, 
stronger focus on labour and social issues, and 
increased efforts towards climate mitigation to drive 
labour market change over the 2025-2030 period. 
Skills gaps in the labour market, organizational 
cultures, and outdated regulations are the 
perceived top barriers to business transformation 
in the region, each highlighted by about 50% of 
respondents. Eighty percent of firms expect talent 
development to improve over the next five years, 
surpassing global averages. A large majority of 
employers in the region plans to respond to skills 
gap by upskilling their own workforce (84%), 
accelerating the automation of tasks (81%), or hiring 
staff with new skills (68%). 
Employers in Argentina expect broadening 
digital access, climate mitigation and economic 
uncertainty to shape labour market change over 
the next five years. Skills gaps are seen as a barrier 
to business transformation by 65% of companies, 
followed by outdated regulations (57%) and 
organizational cultures and resistance to change 
(48%). To address skills gaps, firms operating in the 
country are planning to hire staff with new skills, to 
automate tasks where possible, and – to a lesser 
extent – to invest in reskilling and upskilling (71%, 
compared to a global average of 85%). Expected 
fastest-growing jobs in the country include Data 
Analysts and Scientists and AI and Machine 
Learning Specialists. While only one out of five 
companies expect wages to account for a growing 
share of total revenues in the next five years 
(compared to 52% globally), 57% of employers are 
planning to design their salary and compensation 
strategy to support workers’ purchasing power 
(compared to 33% globally). 
In Brazil, like in many other countries, skills gaps 
are perceived as a primary barrier to business 
transformation by 2030. Employers operating in 
the country foresee growth in job roles such as 
Digital Transformation Specialists, AI and Machine 
Learning Experts, and Supply Chain and Logistics 
Specialists. Almost nine in 10 companies in Brazil 
plan to upskill their workforce over the next five 
years. While AI and big data, creative thinking, 
and technological literacy are anticipated to be the 
fastest-growing skills in the country, companies 
also expect a greater focus on empathy and active 
listening, cited by 60% of respondents, as well 
as resilience, flexibility, agility, and curiosity and 
lifelong learning.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
75


Companies in Colombia anticipate labour-market 
changes due to broadening digital access, 
increased efforts to reduce carbon emissions 
and greater focus on labour and social issues 
over the 2025-2030 period: 65% identify skills 
gaps as a key barrier to transformation and 61% 
cite outdated or inflexible regulatory frameworks. 
However, employers operating in Colombia are 
more positive than global peers regarding their 
future talent availability outlook, with 47% expecting 
talent availability to improve by 2030. To improve 
talent retention, respondents are planning to focus 
on employee health and well-being and improving 
employee progression.
By 2030, broadening digital access and climate-
change mitigation are expected to shape the 
labour market in Mexico. Ninety-five percent of 
companies operating in the country expect AI 
tools to transform their operations in the next 
five years, and 63% anticipate making greater 
use of robotics, with 82% of employers aiming 
to accelerate automation of tasks over the same 
time horizon. Information Security Analysts and Big 
Data Specialists are projected to be among the 
fastest-growing job roles in the country. Employers 
in Mexico are positive about talent retention, with 
53% expecting improvements (compared to 44% 
globally). In addition to AI and big data and creative 
thinking skills, companies anticipate placing greater 
emphasis on resilience, flexibility and agility as well 
as environmental stewardship, with 73% and 69% 
of firms, respectively, expecting these skills to see 
rising demand.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
76


Share of employers
Impact of macrotrends, 2025-2030, by region
TA B L E  5 . 1
0
100
50
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers which expect macrotrends to drive transformation in their organization (%), by region.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
77


Share of employers
Impact of technology related trends, 2025-2030, by region
TA B L E  5 . 2
0
100
50
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers which expect  technology related trends to drive transformation in their organization (%), by region.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
78


Share of employers
Environmental stewardship
Global citizenship
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Dependability and attention to detail
Motivation and self-awareness
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
Empathy and active listening
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Teaching and mentoring
Analytical thinking
Creative thinking
Multi-lingualism
Reading, writing and mathematics
Systems thinking
Marketing and media
Service orientation and customer service
Quality control
Resource management and operations
Talent management
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Sensory-processing abilities
AI and big data
Design and user experience
Networks and cybersecurity
Programming
Technological literacy
Self-efﬁcacy
Technology skills
Working
with others
Ethics
Management 
skills
Cognitive 
skills
Engagement
skills
Physical
abilities
Skills, knowledge and abilities
Attitudes
Skill importance in 2025, by region
TA B L E  5 . 3
0
100
50
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers which consider skills to be core skills for their workers (%), by region. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
79


Skill evolution, 2025-2030, by region
TA B L E  5 . 4
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Net difference between the share of employers which consider skills to be increasing and decreasing in importance to their workers from 
2025 to 2030 (%), by region. The share of employers predicting skill stability is not used in the calculation.
0
100
50
-50
-100
Net difference
Environmental stewardship
Global citizenship
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Dependability and attention to detail
Motivation and self-awareness
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
Empathy and active listening
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Teaching and mentoring
Analytical thinking
Creative thinking
Multi-lingualism
Reading, writing and mathematics
Systems thinking
Marketing and media
Service orientation and customer service
Quality control
Resource management and operations
Talent management
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Sensory-processing abilities
AI and big data
Design and user experience
Networks and cybersecurity
Programming
Technological literacy
Self-efﬁcacy
Technology skills
Working
with others
Ethics
Management 
skills
Cognitive 
skills
Engagement
skills
Physical
abilities
Skills, knowledge and abilities
Attitudes
Future of Jobs Report 2025
80


Industry insights
Cross-industry trends and scope 
for collaboration
The anticipated impact of macrotrends on the future 
of jobs is multi-faceted across both geographies 
and sectors. Specific industries are seeing points 
of convergence as well as distinct barriers to 
transformation and thus are prioritizing different 
workforce strategies in response to labour-market 
transformation by 2030. While 19 out of 22 
global industries covered by the report identify 
skills gaps in the local labour market as the top 
barrier to industry transformation, each sector 
also anticipates distinct additional challenges in 
the next five years. In both the Government and 
Public sector and Medical and Healthcare sector, 
for example, organizational culture and resistance 
to change features as the most-selected barrier to 
transformation. In the Real Estate sector, inability 
to attract talent to the industry is seen as the key 
obstacle. Four sectors – Agriculture, Forestry, and 
Fishing; Information and Technology Services; Oil 
and Gas; and Retail and Wholesale of Consumer 
Goods – view data and technical infrastructure as 
one of the key barriers. As shown in Figure 5.1, 
most industries see talent attractiveness at the 
industry level as a bigger issue than at the firm level 
over the 2025-2030 period (with Automotive and 
Aerospace, Education and Training, and Information 
Technology being the three exceptions). 
5.2
Future of Jobs Report 2025
81


Share
60
12
Firm attractiveness seen as outweighing industry attractiveness
Industry attractiveness seen as outweighingﬁrm attractiveness
28
32
19
42
41
32
36
21
21
25
30
24
22
17
39
11
23
26
16
30
29
21
55
40
43
35
50
25
43
37
34
34
28
40
33
22
39
37
42
40
60
38
37
24
Inability to attract talent to the ﬁrm
Inability to attract talent to the industry
Attracting talent to the ﬁrm and to the industry
F I G U R E  5 . 1
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Note
Industries in which a larger or equal proportion of companies identify ﬁrm-level talent 
attraction as a greater challenge than industry-level talent attraction are displayed in dark blue. 
Industries in which industry-level talent attraction is identiﬁed as a greater challenge than 
ﬁrm-level talent attraction are displayed in light blue.
Share of employers surveyed expecting an inability to attract talent to their ﬁrm or an inability to attract talent to their industry will hinder 
their organizational transformation, by industry.
Accommodation, Food, and Leisure
Advanced Manufacturing
Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
Automotive and Aerospace
Chemical and Advanced Materials
Education and Training
Electronics
Energy Technology and Utilities
Financial Services and Capital Markets
Government and Public Sector
Information and Technology Services
Infrastructure
Insurance and Pensions Management
Medical and Healthcare Services
Mining and Metals
Oil and Gas
Production of Consumer Goods
Professional Services
Real Estate
Retail and Wholesale of Consumer Goods
Supply Chain and Transportation
Telecommunications
Future of Jobs Report 2025
82


The fact that Future of Jobs Survey respondents 
predominantly evaluate talent availability challenges 
as industry-level issues points to potentially 
untapped opportunities for industry stakeholders 
to collaborate and implement customized intra-
industry or cross-industry solutions. However, 
employers across industries often exhibit different 
preferences over workforce strategies. 
Reaching close to a consensus view, upskilling 
is selected as the top workforce strategy 
in 20 industries and ranks second in the 
remaining two: Electronics and Insurance and 
Pensions Management. Oil and Gas (96%) and 
Telecommunications (96%) are the industries most 
committed to upskilling, while a still significant 73% 
of Education and Training industry employers plan 
to focus on this strategy. 
There exist more notable industry differences 
with regard to anticipated use of technologies 
to either fully automate processes and tasks or 
complement and augment the human workforce, 
as shown in Figure 5.2. While most industries aim 
to pursue a balance of both automation-focused 
and augmentation-focused workforce strategies 
over the 2025-2030 period, 87% of respondents in 
Electronics expect to focus on automating tasks, 
whereas only 48% plan to focus on workforce 
augmentation. Industries including Insurance and 
Pensions as well as Telecommunications exhibit 
a similar automation-to-augmentation gap. By 
contrast, sectors such as Healthcare, Agriculture, 
and Government report a higher preference for 
augmentation over automation. 
Additionally, while hiring staff with new skills to 
meet emerging business needs features among 
the top three workforce strategies in 17 out of 22 
sectors – possibly precipitating strong intra- and 
inter-industry competition over talent over the next 
five years – upskilling and transitioning existing staff 
from declining to growing job roles appears as an 
untapped opportunity: only the Automotive and 
Aerospace, Electronics, and Real Estate sectors 
currently aim to prioritize such job transitions as one 
of their top three workforce strategies by 2030.
Accelerate automation of processes and tasks
Complement and augment workforce with new technologies
80
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
55
70
65
80
85
90
100
95
75
60
Augmentation
Automation
Real Estate
Agriculture, Forestry, 
and Fishing
Chemical and 
Advanced Materials
Accommodation, 
Food, and Leisure
Energy Technology 
and Utilities
Medical and 
Healthcare Services
Supply Chain and Transportation
Advanced 
Manufacturing
Education and Training
Infrastructure
Oil and 
Gas
Government and Public Sector
Automotive and Aerospace
Information and 
Technology Services
Retail and Wholesale 
of Consumer Goods
Mining and Metals
Production of Consumer Goods
Telecommunications
Financial Services and 
Capital Markets
Electronics
Insurance and 
Pensions Management
Professional 
Services
Workforce strategy: automation or augmentation, by industry
F I G U R E  5 . 2
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers surveyed planning to adopt the stated workforce strategies
Future of Jobs Report 2025
83


Industry-level findings
By 2030, transformation of the Accommodation, 
Food, and Leisure industry is expected to be 
shaped by rising cost of living and a greater 
focus on labour and social issues. Increased 
digitalization – while still relevant for a significant 
51% of respondents – appears as less central 
than in other industries. The focus placed by the 
industry on human experience and social issues 
is reflected in the human-technology frontier, as 
companies anticipate continued reliance on humans 
to predominantly deliver 43% of total work tasks 
over the next five years, higher than the global 
industry average. However, talent availability is a 
growing concern, with 59% of employers expecting 
hiring challenges to worsen. To respond to these 
emerging trends, firms are scaling up upskilling 
efforts, hiring for emerging skills and augmenting 
workforce with new technologies, while also 
aiming to improve the industry’s attractiveness 
by supporting employee health and well-being, 
improving wages and talent progression. About one 
third of companies is investing in diversity, equity 
and inclusion efforts, focusing particularly on young 
talent (69%, compared to the 52% global industry 
average) and migrant workers (33%, compared to 
20% globally).
The Advanced Manufacturing sector expects 
to undergo transformation shaped by increased 
investments to reduce carbon emissions and 
adapt to climate change and rising cost of living. 
Companies are anticipating the adoption of AI 
(81%), robotics (69%), and new materials and 
composites (63%, almost twice as many as in 
other industries). The industry predicts increasing 
demand for AI and big data skills, creative thinking, 
networks and cybersecurity skills, but also systems 
thinking, design and user experience, and resource 
management. To prepare for these changes, 
employers expect to be able to upskill 29% of 
workers in their current role, while they foresee 
a need for 15% of workers to be reskilled and 
re-deployed in the next five years. Fifty percent of 
firms are planning to tap into diverse talent pools to 
ease labour shortages, and 55% (more than in most 
other industries) plan to focus their diversity, equity 
and inclusion efforts on workers aged 55 years and 
above.
Skills gaps are seen as the key barrier to 
transformation for businesses in the Agriculture, 
Forestry, and Fishing industry by 2030 (selected 
by 68% of respondents), followed by outdated 
regulations (51%, compared to the 39% global 
industry average) and insufficient data infrastructure 
(46%, compared to 32% globally). Climate 
mitigation and adaptation are key challenges 
highlighted by the industry, alongside rising cost of 
living. As employers address these challenges, they 
are planning to upgrade their workforce strategies 
by emphasizing upskilling and reskilling, hiring 
for new skills, and augmenting their workforce 
with technology. The top three skills on the rise 
are predicted to be resilience, flexibility and 
agility, technological literacy, and environmental 
stewardship, while skills related to AI and big data, 
networks, and cybersecurity are growing more 
slowly than in other industries. One-third of firms 
in the industry do not have a diversity, equity and 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
84


inclusion programme, while 63% expect wages 
to account for a growing share of employers’ 
total revenues, with 92% intending to align wages 
with productivity and 46% aiming to reduce wage 
inequalities.
The Automotive and Aerospace sector stands out 
for its expectation regarding the significant impact 
that both climate mitigation and geoeconomic 
fragmentation might have on the industry in the 
next five years: 54% of respondents identify rising 
geopolitical tensions (compared to 34% across 
other industries) and 46% highlight increasing trade 
restrictions (compared to 23% in other industries) 
as key drivers of change. About one-fourth of 
industry players are evaluating options to reshore, 
nearshore or friendshore, and 16% to offshore – 
suggesting the possibility of greater supply chain 
re-organization than in other industries. These 
trends point to considerable transformation for 
most companies, with skills gaps in labour markets, 
organizational cultures and resistance to change 
identified as top barriers, alongside difficulties to 
attract talent to the industry (highlighted by 42% of 
respondents, compared to 37% in other industries) 
and limited access to investment capital (40%, 
compared to 26% in other industries). Employers 
are prioritizing workforce strategies that focus on 
upskilling, automating processes, and transitioning 
staff from declining to growing roles. Jobs on the 
rise are predicted to include Robotics Engineers 
and Data Analysts and Scientists. 
In the Chemical and Advanced Materials sector, 
industry transformation is foreseen to be heavily 
influenced by investments in the green and digital 
transitions, leading to a projected increase in job 
roles for AI and Machine Learning Specialists and 
Business Development Professionals by 2030. 
The industry also anticipates a need for more AI 
and big data as well as environmental stewardship 
skills. However, the human factor is expected to 
pose a significant barrier for the industry, with skills 
gaps in the labour markets and talent attraction 
to the industry identified as the top two obstacles 
to industry transformation. To improve industry 
attractiveness, companies are planning to focus 
on talent progression and promotion processes, 
supporting employees’ health and well-being 
and offering higher wages. Employers suggest 
governments should support upskilling and 
reskilling and improve education systems, as well 
as provide wage subsidies and greater flexibility in 
wage setting. Nine in 10 companies in the industry 
plan to align wages closely with productivity while 
only 9% plan to review wage costs as part of cost-
reduction exercises in the next five years.
Broadening digital access, increased focus on 
labour and social issues, and slower economic 
growth are expected to drive the transformation 
of the Education and Training sector by 2030. 
AI and big data skills as well as creative thinking 
are foreseen to grow in importance. Emerging 
job roles within the industry are anticipated to 
include AI and Machine Learning Specialists and 
Digital Transformation Specialists. Employers also 
place greater emphasis than in other industries 
on curiosity and lifelong learning, marketing and 
media skills and multilingualism. The industry is 
less focused than other sectors on upskilling and 
reskilling its own workforce (73%, compared to 
the 85% global industry average), while employers 
aim to improve attractiveness through better talent 
progression and promotion processes, higher 
wages, and supporting employee well-being.
By 2030, the landscape of the Electronics sector 
is expected to be shaped by increased climate 
mitigation efforts, continued digitalization of the 
economy, and aging and shrinking workforces, 
while the industry appears less concerned about 
economic cycles: only 25% of respondents 
anticipate significant impact from slower economic 
growth, compared to 42% across all sectors. With 
AI, robotics and energy technologies targeted for 
adoption, industry job growth is predicted for AI and 
Machine Learning Specialists and Electrotechnology 
Engineers. Talent availability is seen as a concern, 
with 61% of employers expecting hiring challenges 
to worsen but only 9% worried about talent 
retention (compared to 19% global industry 
average). Workforce strategies are planned to focus 
on automation, upskilling, and transitioning staff to 
growing roles. Other than public policy support on 
reskilling and upskilling, firms also call for improved 
transport infrastructure to enhance talent availability.
Over the next five years, climate mitigation is 
foreseen to be at the centre of the Energy 
Technology and Utilities sector, as companies 
plan to invest in greener technologies for energy 
generation, storage and distribution. As a result, 
Environmental Engineers, AI and Machine Learning 
Specialists and Renewable Energy Engineers 
are among the expected top-growing job roles 
in the sector. As employers aim to transform 
their business, industry players are particularly 
concerned about skills gaps in the labour market 
(81%, compared to 63% across all industries), 
alongside outdated or unflexible regulations 
(44%), organizational culture and resistance to 
change, and the industry’s capacity to attract 
talent (37%). To improve talent availability and 
industry attractiveness, businesses are planning 
on improving talent progression and promotion 
processes and investing in reskilling and upskilling 
programmes, for which respondents see a role for 
increased financial support from the public sector. 
Increased digitalization is seen as the primary 
driver of transformation in the Financial Services 
and Capital Markets sector over the next five 
years, alongside adaptation to climate change 
and slower economic growth. The sector also 
anticipates being particularly exposed to AI, with 
only 5% of employers expecting no significant 
adoption of the technology by 2030 (compared to 
14% across all industries). As a result, AI and big 
data skills, technological literacy and cybersecurity 
skills are estimated to be in high demand and the 
industry anticipates creation of new job roles for 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
85


Big Data Specialists, AI and Machine Learning 
Specialists, and Security Management Specialists. 
To improve talent availability, the industry is 
planning on investing in reskilling and upskilling 
(71% of employers), supporting employees’ well-
being (64%) and improving promotion processes 
(61%). Remote and hybrid work is also seen as a 
strategy to stay attractive for 58% of companies 
in the industry, and one out of two respondents 
is calling for changes to labour laws that support 
remote work (compared to 36% in other sectors). 
The industry is particularly advanced in its plans to 
remove degree requirements in favour of skills-
based hiring approaches (28%, compared to 19% 
across all industries).
Employers in the Government and Public Sector 
identify organizational culture and resistance to 
change as the top barrier to transformation by 
2030, as the sector plans to continue investing 
in digital and green transformation over the 
next five years. In line with global trends, AI 
and big data, Networks and cybersecurity and 
Technological literacy are the skills with highest 
perceived increasing importance, followed by 
Environmental stewardship and creative thinking 
skills. Skills gaps in the labour market and outdated 
regulatory frameworks are seen as potentially 
slowing down transformation of the sector. Overall, 
public employers are positive about future talent 
availability, with 52% of respondents expecting 
improvements in the next five years. To increase 
sector attractiveness and strengthen the sector 
talent base, 80% of employers are planning 
on enhancing talent progression and providing 
reskilling and upskilling programmes in the next five 
years.
Information and Technology Services companies 
are heavily focused on adopting advanced 
technologies by 2030, with anticipated near-
universal uptake of AI and information processing 
(99%, compared to the 86% global industry 
average) and a strong focus also on quantum 
and encryption technologies (41%, compared 
to 12% globally). Growing job roles in the sector 
are foreseen to include Digital Transformation 
Specialists, Software and Applications Developers, 
and Sales and Marketing Professionals. Alongside 
AI and cybersecurity skills, the industry expects 
stronger emphasis on resilience, flexibility, and 
agility than most other sectors, while more 
employers expect demand for programming and 
design and user experience skills to decline than 
in other industries. Workforce strategies aim to 
prioritize upskilling and hiring talent with new 
skills to address emerging needs, alongside a 
higher tendency to reduce staff with less relevant 
skills (49%, compared to 41% in other industries) 
and offshore segments of the workforce (17%, 
compared to 8%).
By 2030, transformation of the Infrastructure 
sector is foreseen to be driven by a need to 
increase investments in carbon reduction, climate 
adaptation and digitalization. As a result, new 
job roles are expected to be created for Big Data 
Specialists and Organizational Development 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
86


Specialists. Top skills on the rise are anticipated to 
be linked to AI and big data as well as networks 
and cybersecurity, and talent management skills 
are expected to grow in demand at a faster rate 
than the global industry average. Twenty-seven 
percent of employees in the sector are anticipated 
to be able to upskill in their current roles, with 
an additional 17% projected to be reskilled and 
redeployed. Almost 70% of respondents expect 
reskilling and upskilling to improve talent retention 
and enhance competitiveness and productivity of 
their company, with 50% planning to increase talent 
mobility through training programmes. 
Over the next five years, evolution of the global 
economic outlook, and population dynamics 
across the world are predicted to drive industry 
transformation in the Insurance and Pensions 
Management sector. Continued adoption of 
digital technologies is also foreseen to transform 
the industry, with 97% of employers planning to 
accelerate automation of processes and tasks, 
which is significantly above the global industry 
average. The sector also expects higher-than-
average levels of workforce augmentation, with 
41% of total work tasks projected to be completed 
by human-technology collaboration by 2030. AI and 
big data, creative thinking, and technological literacy 
are seen as the top skills on the rise. While 42% of 
employers predict talent availability at the point of 
hiring to worsen, the industry is strongly focused on 
upskilling and reskilling: 91% of employers plan to 
upskill their workforce to adapt to evolving needs 
and – as a result – 82% expect talent development 
to improve in the next five years. 
The digital transition, higher cost of living and an 
increasingly aging population are among the key 
drivers of transformation anticipated for Medical 
and Healthcare Services over the 2025-2030 
period. In particular, aging population is highlighted 
as a key factor by 59% of companies in the 
industry, compared to 40% across all sectors. 
As they aim to adapt to these trends, firms cite 
challenges in terms of their own organizational 
culture and resistance to change, alongside 
outdated regulations and skills gaps in the labour 
market. Emerging job roles in the industry are 
expected to include Data Analysts and Scientists 
and AI and Machine Learning Specialists, with 
significant emphasis on AI and big data and 
technological literacy as the top skills increasingly 
in demand. While prioritizing business practices 
that support employee health and well-being 
(57%), providing effective reskilling and upskilling 
(63%), and offering competitive wages (49%) are 
seen as key workforce strategies, the industry also 
increasingly plans to tap into diverse talent pools. 
With industry transformation by 2030 seen as 
predominantly shaped by climate adaptation and 
climate mitigation trends, the Mining and Metals 
sector is also mindful of growing restrictions on 
global trade and investment, with 55% of firms 
identifying this as a key trend (compared to 23% in 
other industries). Considering the green transition, 
79% of industry players expect transformative 
impact from energy technologies, while AI is 
anticipated to be less ubiquitous (66%) than in other 
sectors. The use of autonomous technology to 
complete work tasks is projected to increase faster 
than in other industries. AI and Machine Learning 
Specialists and Mining, Petroleum and Other 
Extraction Workers are expected to see growing 
demand in the industry in the next five years, with AI 
and big data and environmental stewardship seen 
as leading skills on the rise. To attract and retain 
talent, firms are planning on prioritizing employee 
health and well-being (79%) and workplace safety 
(53%), as well as better articulating business 
purpose and impact (63%). 
By 2030, the Oil and Gas sector expects to evolve 
and transform to reduce carbon emissions and 
adapt to climate change. According to 40% of 
respondents from the industry, industrial policy and 
government subsidies will also impact companies’ 
strategies in the next five years. As companies plan 
to adopt cleaner technologies they see increasing 
demand for skills in environmental stewardship, 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
87


alongside AI and big data and technological literacy. 
New job roles are expected to be created for AI and 
Machine Learning Specialists and Data Analysts 
and Scientists. Anticipated workforce strategies 
in the sector are oriented toward upskilling, with 
96% of firms planning on investing in workforce 
development (compared to 85% across all 
industries), as well as accelerating automation 
and augmenting their human workforce with new 
technologies. 
Industry transformation in the Production of 
Consumer Goods sector is foreseen to be 
influenced in particular by rising cost of living and 
increased investments in carbon reduction over the 
next five years. Additionally, the industry predicts 
a need to take into account growing focus on 
emerging labour and social issues (highlighted by 
58% of firms, compared to the 46% global industry 
average). Companies are anticipating actively 
adopting advanced technologies, with higher-than-
average uptake of robots and autonomous systems 
(71%, compared to 58% across all sectors) and 
new materials and composites (61%, compared to 
30%). However, 56% of employers expect talent 
availability to become more difficult in the next five 
years. To address talent shortages, companies are 
planning on supporting workers’ health and well-
being (73%) and improving working hours (52%), 
while they see potential in public policy support with 
regard to flexibility in hiring and firing, flexibility in 
setting wages, and reforming immigration laws. 
By 2030, firms in the Professional Services sector 
expect continued digitalization, rising cost of living 
and increased focus on labour and social issues 
to impact industry transformation. Workforce 
strategies anticipated for the sector emphasize 
upskilling, hiring talent with emerging skills, and 
augmenting the human workforce with new 
technologies. There is also expected to be a higher 
focus on reducing job roles with outdated skills, 
with 48% of companies envisaging prioritizing this 
approach (compared to 40% across all industries). 
One in five employers plan to move operations 
closer to their headquarter location through re-
shoring or near-shoring. Big Data Specialists and 
AI and Machine Learning Specialists are among the 
job roles with the larges projected industry demand, 
while AI and big data, technological literacy, creative 
thinking, and cybersecurity are leading the list of 
skills seen as increasingly in use over the next five 
years. 
Business cycle uncertainty, in terms of both 
economic growth and inflation, are expected to 
particularly impact the transformation of the Real 
Estate industry in the next five years. To react to 
an evolving landscape, companies plan to adapt 
their workforce strategies, prioritizing upskilling and 
reskilling and hiring new talent with relevant skills. 
Emerging job roles in the industry are foreseen to 
include AI and Machine Learning Specialists and 
Business Development Professionals. Demand for 
AI and big data skills, creative thinking, and curiosity 
and lifelong learning is projected to grow across all 
industry roles. Sixty percent of employers highlight 
the sector’s inability to attract talent as a key barrier 
to transformation by 2030. To increase industry 
attractiveness, a majority of companies intends 
to support employee health and well-being and 
provide better training opportunities, as only 34% of 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
88


employees in the industry have currently undergone 
reskilling or upskilling, compared to a global 
industry average of 50%. One-third of employers 
are planning to offer higher wages and one in five 
plan to leverage diversity, equity and inclusion 
programmes: both shares are below the global 
industry averages of 50% and 39%, respectively.
Over the next five years, companies in the Retail 
and Wholesale of Consumer Goods sector 
expect industry transformation to be impacted 
by rising cost of living (68%, compared to 50% 
across all industries) and increased focus on 
labour and social issues (64%, compared to 46%). 
Talent shortages are seen as pronounced in the 
sector, with 58% of employers expecting talent 
availability to become more difficult by 2030 and 
28% anticipating declines in talent retention. To 
adapt workforce strategies, companies are planning 
on prioritizing upskilling and reskilling of current 
workers, automation of tasks, and recruitment of 
talent with emerging skills. Forty-one percent of 
employers are considering transitioning existing staff 
from declining job roles to growth areas, presenting 
an under-utilized opportunity for the industry to 
invest in job transitions. Emerging job roles in the 
industry are anticipated to include AI and Machine 
Learning Specialists, Digital Marketing and Strategy 
Specialists, and Big Data Specialists. 
With 37% of on-the-job skills used today expected 
to change by 2030, the Supply Chain and 
Transportation industry reports having already 
put significant effort into reskilling and upskilling, 
with 57% of employees having completed training 
programmes, above most other industries. As the 
industry transforms in response to increased digital 
access, climate mitigation and adaptation, and 
rising cost of living, growing job roles in the industry 
are foreseen to include Light Truck or Delivery 
Services Drivers; Client Information and Customer 
Service Workers; and Car, Van and Motorcycle 
Drivers. Companies see increasing demand in skills 
such as AI and big data, technological literacy, and 
networks and cybersecurity. Analytical thinking 
is also identified as a priority, with 79% of firms 
expecting increasing its use, a higher share than in 
other industries. However, a majority of respondents 
regards the industry’s inability to attract talent as a 
potential risk that could stall transformation.  
As digital access and connectivity continue to 
increase globally, they are expected to drive 
industry transformation in the Telecommunications 
sector over the next five years. Adoption of AI is 
anticipated to play a strong role in the future of 
the industry, while 40% of companies are also 
preparing to make greater use of space and satellite 
technologies. Growing job roles in the industry 
are expected to include AI and Machine Learning 
Specialists, Big Data Specialists, and Data Analysts 
and Scientists. To enable industry transformation, 
96% of employers plan to upskill and reskill their 
workforce and 82% intend to increase automation 
of tasks within work processes. To attract talent, 
48% of companies – twice the global industry 
average – plan to offer remote work across borders, 
while 22% of respondents are evaluating options 
for moving operations closer to their homebase 
through reshoring or nearshoring.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
89


Ageing and declining working-age 
populations
Broadening digital access
Growing working-age populations
Increased efforts and investments 
to adapt to climate change
Increased efforts and investments 
to reduce carbon emissions
Increased focus on labour and social issues
Increased geopolitical division and conﬂicts
Increased government subsidies 
and industrial policy
Increased restrictions to global trade 
and investment
Rising cost of living, higher prices or inﬂation
Slower economic growth
Stricter anti-trust and 
competition regulations
Share of employers
Impact of macrotrends, 2025-2030
TA B L E  5 . 5
0
100
50
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers which expect macrotrends to drive transformation in their organization (%).
Accommodation, food, and leisure
Advanced manufacturing
Agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing
Automotive and aerospace
Chemical and advanced materials
Education and training
Electronics
Energy technology and utilities
Financial services and capital markets
Government and public sector
Information and technology services
Infrastructure
Insurance and pensions management
Medical and healthcare services
Mining and metals
Oil and gas
Production of consumer goods
Professional services
Real estate
Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
Supply chain and transportation
Telecommunications
Future of Jobs Report 2025
90


AI and information processing technologies 
(big data, VR, AR etc.)
Biotechnology and gene technologies
Energy generation, storage and distribution
New materials and composites
Quantum and encryption
Robots and autonomous systems
Satellites and space technologies
Semiconductors and computing technologies
Sensing, laser and optical technologies
Impact of technology related trends, 2025-2030
TA B L E  5 . 6
Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Share of employers which expect  technology related trends to drive transformation in their organization (%).
Share of employers
0
100
50
Accommodation, food, and leisure
Advanced manufacturing
Agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing
Automotive and aerospace
Chemical and advanced materials
Education and training
Electronics
Energy technology and utilities
Financial services and capital markets
Government and public sector
Information and technology services
Infrastructure
Insurance and pensions management
Medical and healthcare services
Mining and metals
Oil and gas
Production of consumer goods
Professional services
Real estate
Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
Supply chain and transportation
Telecommunications
Future of Jobs Report 2025
91


Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
Accommodation, food, and leisure
Advanced manufacturing
Agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing
Automotive and aerospace
Chemical and advanced materials
Education and training
Electronics
Energy technology and utilities
Financial services and capital markets
Government and public sector
Information and technology services
Infrastructure
Insurance and pensions management
Medical and healthcare services
Mining and metals
Oil and gas
Production of consumer goods
Professional services
Real estate
Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
Supply chain and transportation
Telecommunications
Environmental stewardship
Global citizenship
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Dependability and attention to detail
Motivation and self-awareness
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
Empathy and active listening
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Teaching and mentoring
Analytical thinking
Creative thinking
Multi-lingualism
Reading, writing and mathematics
Systems thinking
Marketing and media
Service orientation and customer service
Quality control
Resource management and operations
Talent management
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Sensory-processing abilities
AI and big data
Design and user experience
Networks and cybersecurity
Programming
Technological literacy
Self-efﬁcacy
Technology skills
Working
with others
Ethics
Management 
skills
Cognitive 
skills
Engagement
skills
Physical
abilities
Skills, knowledge and abilities
Attitudes
Skill importance in 2025
TA B L E  5 . 7
Share of employers which consider skills to be core skills for their workers (%).
Share of employers
0
100
50
92


Source
World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Survey 2024.
0
100
50
-50
-100
Accommodation, food, and leisure
Advanced manufacturing
Agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshing
Automotive and aerospace
Chemical and advanced materials
Education and training
Electronics
Energy technology and utilities
Financial services and capital markets
Government and public sector
Information and technology services
Infrastructure
Insurance and pensions management
Medical and healthcare services
Mining and metals
Oil and gas
Production of consumer goods
Professional services
Real estate
Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
Supply chain and transportation
Telecommunications
Skill evolution, 2025-2030
TA B L E  5 . 8
Net difference between the share of employers which consider skills to be increasing and decreasing in importance to their workers from
2025 to 2030 (%). The share of employers predicting skill stability is not used in the calculation.
Net difference
Environmental stewardship
Global citizenship
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Dependability and attention to detail
Motivation and self-awareness
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
Empathy and active listening
Leadership and social inﬂuence
Teaching and mentoring
Analytical thinking
Creative thinking
Multi-lingualism
Reading, writing and mathematics
Systems thinking
Marketing and media
Service orientation and customer service
Quality control
Resource management and operations
Talent management
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Sensory-processing abilities
AI and big data
Design and user experience
Networks and cybersecurity
Programming
Technological literacy
Self-efﬁcacy
Technology skills
Working
with others
Ethics
Management 
skills
Cognitive 
skills
Engagement
skills
Physical
abilities
Skills, knowledge and abilities
Attitudes
Future of Jobs Report 2025
93


The transformation of the jobs and skills landscape 
anticipated by this year’s Future of Jobs Survey 
respondents will have significant impacts on 
businesses, industries, governments and workers 
worldwide. It is crucial to develop nuanced 
forecasts, identify appropriate workforce and 
talent strategies, and make informed decisions 
on managing disruptions to jobs and skills for 
employers and workers alike.
This edition of the Future of Jobs Report presents a 
mixed picture with regard to the 2025-2030 outlook 
for the global labour market. On the one hand, 
amid newly emerging drivers such as increasing 
geoeconomic fragmentation, rising cost of living 
and the widespread adoption of AI tools in the 
workforce, global macrotrends create an ever-
more complex environment for policy-makers, 
employers and workers to navigate, and uncertainty 
remains high. On the other hand, the report 
finds a strongly net-positive global employment 
outlook, with a continuing decrease in the rate of 
skills obsolescence, as reskilling, upskilling and 
redeployment initiatives implemented in recent 
years begin to register in the data and materialize 
their global workforce impact.
Employers across all industries and geographies 
demonstrate greater awareness and willingness 
than in previous editions of the report to 
proactively engage in addressing workforce and 
talent challenges, and to do so by pragmatically 
leveraging innovative approaches such as skills-
based hiring policies and a more strategic focus on 
diversity, equity and inclusion.
However, skills gaps remain the predominant 
barrier to transformation across most industries 
and economies, and this year’s edition of the 
Future of Jobs Report captures some early signals 
of likely future priority areas for constructive 
multistakeholder engagement, including a need 
for proactive and dynamic job transitions across a 
wider and growing range of job roles and questions 
concerning the appropriate future balance between 
deeper automation and broader augmentation.
This last point reflects a core tenet of the Future of 
Jobs Report since its inception: that the future of 
work can be shaped for better outcomes and that 
it is the policy, business and investment decisions 
made by leaders today that will determine these 
outcomes and the future space for action. The 
World Economic Forum is actively supporting 
the building of a future-ready, inclusive workforce 
through its two human capital flagship initiatives: 
The Reskilling Revolution and The Jobs Initiative. 
We hope that this report will contribute to an 
ambitious multistakeholder agenda to better 
prepare workers, businesses, governments, 
educators and civil society, empowering them to 
build a better future of jobs for all.
Conclusions
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025
94


Endnotes
1.	
lnternational Monetary Fund (IMF), “Policy Pivot, Rising Threats”, World Economic Outlook, October 2024, 2024, https://
www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO/Issues/2024/10/22/world-economic-outlook-october-2024.
2.	
International Labour Office, Trends Econometric Models (ilo.org/wesodata) – Accessed December 2024.
3.	
Stanford University Human Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence, AI Index Report 2024, AI Index, 2024, https://aiindex.
stanford.edu/report/#individual-chapters.
4.	
World Economic Forum, Leveraging Generative AI for Job Augmentation and Workforce Productivity, 2024. 
5.	
Bonney, K., C. Breaux, C. Buffington, E. Dinlersoz, L Foster, N. Goldschlog, J. Haltiwanger, Z. Kroff and J. Savage, 
Tracking Firm Use of AI in Real Time: A Snapshot from the Business Trends and Outlook Survey, US Census Bureau, 2024, 
https://www.census.gov/hfp/btos/downloads/CES-WP-24-16.pdf; European Commission, “Use of artificial intelligence 
in enterprises”, Eurostat database, 2024, https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=Use_of_
artificial_intelligence_in_enterprises#Enterprises_using_artificial_intelligence_technologies.
6.	
Liu, Yan and He Wang, Who on Earth is Using Generative AI?, Policy Research Working Paper 10870, 
World Bank, 2024, https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/099720008192430535/pdf/
IDU15f321eb5148701472d1a88813ab677be07b0.pdf?_gl=1*wbws3r*_gcl_au*MTU0NTEyMjkyNS4xNzE5OTk5MDg0.
7.	
Brynjolfsson, Erik, Danielle Li and Lindsey Raymond, “Generative AI at Work”, arxiv.org, 6 November 2024, https://arxiv.
org/abs/2304.11771.
8.	
Noy, Shakked and Whitney Zhang, “Experimental evidence on the productivity effects of generative artificial intelligence”, 
Science, vol. 381, no. 6654, 2023, pp. 187–192.
9.	
Dell’Acqua, Fabrizio, Edward McFowland III, Ethan R. Mollick, Hila Lifshitz-Assaf, Katherine Kellogg, Saran Rajendran, 
Lisa Krayer, François Candelon and Karim R. Lakhani, “Navigating the Jagged Technological Frontier: Field Experimental 
Evidence of the Effects of AI on Knowledge Worker Productivity and Quality “, Harvard Business School Technology & 
Operations Mgt. Unit Working Paper No. 24-013, Harvard Business School, 2023, https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.
cfm?abstract_id=457332.1.
10.	
Autor, David, “Applying to Rebuild Middle-Class Jobs”, NBER Working Paper 32140, National Bureau of Economic 
Research, 2024, https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w32140/w32140.pdf.
11.	
Equality Debate: Power and Progress, with Daron Acemoglu”, World Inequality Lab, 6 November 2023.
12.	
If AI significantly complements human labour, particularly in certain occupations, it could lead to productivity surges, 
higher growth, and potentially higher incomes for most workers. This productivity boost might offset some of the negative 
effects of job displacement by AI. Cazzaniga et al. (2024) Gen-AI: Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Work, IMF Staff 
Discussion Notes SDN/2024/001.
13.	
Industrial Federation of Robots (IFR), World Robotics-Industrial Robots, https://ifr.org/wr-industrial-robots/ – Accessed 
December 2024.
14.	
Industrial Federation of Robots (IFR), Global Robot Density in Factories Doubled in Seven Years [Press release], 20 
November 2024, https://ifr.org/ifr-press-releases/news/global-robot-density-in-factories-doubled-in-seven-years.
15.	
Industrial Federation of Robots (IFR), World Robotics: Industrial Robots 2023:Statistics, Market Analysis, Forecasts, and 
Case Studies, 2023, https://ifr.org/img/worldrobotics/Executive_Summary_WR_Industrial_Robots_2023.pdf.
16.	
World Economic Forum, Chief Economists Outlook 2024, 2024, https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Chief_
Economists_Outlook_September_2024.pdf.
17.	
International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Policy Pivot, Rising Threats”, World Economic Outlook, October 2024, 2024, https://
www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO/Issues/2024/10/22/world-economic-outlook-october-2024.
18.	
Ibid.
19.	
International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Policy Pivot, Rising Threats”, World Economic Outlook, October 2024, 2024, https://
www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO/Issues/2024/10/22/world-economic-outlook-october-2024.
20.	
World Trade Organization (WTO), “WTO: Trade Monitoring Latest Trends”, The Trade Monitoring Update, August 7, 2024, 
https://tmdb-storage.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/public/TPRD_Trade_Monitoring_Update_Jul-2024_EN.pdf.
21.	
International Monetary Fund (IMF), “Policy Pivot, Rising Threats”, World Economic Outlook, October 2024, 2024, https://
www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO/Issues/2024/10/22/world-economic-outlook-october-2024.
22.	
Aiyar,Shekhar, Jiaqian Chen, Christian H Ebeke, Roberto Garcia-Saltos, Tryggvi Gudmundsson, Anna Ilyina, Alvar Kangur, 
Tansaya Kunaratskul, Sergio L. Rodriguez, Michele Ruta, Tatjana Schulze, Gabriel Soderberg and Juan P Trevino, 
Geoeconomic Fragmentation and the Future of Multilateralism, Staff Discussion Notes, International Monetary Fund (IMF), 
15 January 2023, https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/Staff-Discussion-Notes/Issues/2023/01/11/Geo-Economic-
Fragmentation-and-the-Future-of-Multilateralism-527266.
23.	
Bolhuis, Martin A., Hamza Mighri, Henry Rawlings, Ivanova Reyes and Qianqian Zhang, “How Vulnerable is Sub-Saharan 
Africa to Geoeconomic Fragmentation?”, IMF Working Papers, International Monetary Fund (IMF), 11 January 2023, 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
95


https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/WP/Issues/2024/04/05/How-Vulnerable-is-Sub-Saharan-Africa-to-Geoeconomic-
Fragmentation-546346,
24.	
Aiyar,Shekhar, Jiaqian Chen, Christian H Ebeke, Roberto Garcia-Saltos, Tryggvi Gudmundsson, Anna Ilyina, Alvar Kangur, 
Tansaya Kunaratskul, Sergio L. Rodriguez, Michele Ruta, Tatjana Schulze, Gabriel Soderberg and Juan P Trevino, 
Geoeconomic Fragmentation and the Future of Multilateralism, Staff Discussion Notes, International Monetary Fund (IMF), 
15 January 2023, https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/Staff-Discussion-Notes/Issues/2023/01/11/Geo-Economic-
Fragmentation-and-the-Future-of-Multilateralism-527266.
25.	
International Monetary Fund (IMF), “A Greener Labor Market: Employment, Policies, and Economic Transformation”, in 
World Economic Outlook April 2022, 2022, https://www.elibrary.imf.org/display/book/9781616359423/CH003.xml.
26.	
UN Environmen Programme, Climate Risks in the Metals and Mining Sector, 2024, https://www.unepfi.org/themes/
climate-change/climate-risks-in-the-metals-and-mining-sector/.
27.	
Tyros, Stefanos, Dan Andrews and Alain de Serres, “Doing green things: skills, reallocation, and the green transition”, 
OECD Economics Department Working Papers, Organisation of Economic Co-opration and Development (OECD), 2023; 
https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/economics/doing-green-things-skills-reallocation-and-the-green-transition_286a5007-en.
28.	
Weston, Casey, Juni Tingting Zhu and Pechiyappan Muthukumar, ”LinkedIn green skills data available in 77 countries via 
Prosperity Data360”. Data blog, World Bank, 9 July 2024, https://blogs.worldbank.org/en/opendata/linkedin-green-skills-
data-available-in-77-countries-via-prosper.
29.	
United Nations, World Population Prospects 2024 (https://population.un.org/wpp/) – Accessed December 2024.
30.	
International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Economic Outlook, April 2024, 2024.
31.	
Lightcast, The Rising Storm: Building A Future-Ready Workforce to Withstand the Looming Labor Shortage, 2024, https://
lightcast.io/resources/research/the-rising-storm; https://www.aei.org/op-eds/are-we-ready-for-a-shrinking-working-age-
population/; Carney, Timothy P., “Are We Ready for a Shrinking Working-Age Population?”, Washington Examiner, 22 
April 2024, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167268123000409; Lanzafame, Matteo and Antonio 
Francesco Gravina, “Robots To the Rescue: Three Ways Automation Can Cushion the Impact of Aging on Economic 
Growth”, Asia Development Blog, 16 November 2023, https://blogs.adb.org/blog/robots-rescue-three-ways-automation-
can-cushion-impact-aging-economic-growth.
32.	
World Bank, World Bank Group Launches High Level Council to Tackle Looming Jobs Crisis [Press release], 12 August 
2024, https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2024/08/12/world-bank-group-launches-high-level-council-to-
tackle-looming-jobs-crisis.
33.	
Freeman, Richard B., “Who Owns the Robots Owns the World”, IZA World of Labor, vol. 5, 2015, https://wol.iza.org/
uploads/articles/5/pdfs/who-owns-the-robots-rules-the-world.pdf.
34.	
Acemoglu, Daron and Simon Johnson, “Power and Progress: Our Thousand-Year Struggle Over Technology and 
Prosperity”, Public Affairs, 2016, https://www.amazon.com/Power-Progress-Thousand-Year-Technology-Prosperity/
dp/1541702530.
35.	
Acemoglu, Daron, David Autor and Simon Johnson, Can we Have Pro-Worker AI? Choosing a path of machines in service 
of minds, Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEOR), 2023, https://cepr.org/system/files/publication-files/191183-
policy_insight_123_can_we_have_pro_worker_ai_choosing_a_path_of_machines_in_service_of_minds.pdf.
36.	
See the World Economic Forum’s Global Skills Taxonomy here: https://www1.reskillingrevolution2030.org/skills-
taxonomy/index.html.
37.	
World Economic Forum, Unlocking Opportunity: A Global Framework for Enabling Transitions to the Jobs of Tomorrow, 
2024, https://www.weforum.org/publications/unlocking-opportunity-a-global-framework-for-enabling-transitions-to-the-
jobs-of-tomorrow/.
38.	
See also World Economic Forum, Towards a Reskilling Revolution: A Future of Jobs For All, 2018, https://www3.weforum.
org/docs/WEF_FOW_Reskilling_Revolution.pdf.
39.	
See: https://www.onetonline.org.
40.	
World Economic Forum, Leveraging Generative AI for Job Augmentation and Workforce Productivity, 2024.
41.	
Hering, Annina and Arcenis Rojas, “Methodology: Assessing the Likelihood of GenAI Replacing Work Skills”, Hiring Lab, 
Indeed, 25 September 2024,https://www.hiringlab.org/2024/09/25/methodology-ai-replacing-work-skills/.
42.	
Natalucci, Fabio, Mahvash S. Qureshi and Felix Suntheim, “Rising Cyber Threats Pose Serious Concerns for Financial 
Stability, IMF Blog, International Monetary Fund (IMF), 9 April 2024, https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2024/04/09/
rising-cyber-threats-pose-serious-concerns-for-financial-stability.
43.	
See for more details about the World Economic Forum’s Reskilling Revolution Initiative: https://initiatives.weforum.org/
reskilling-revolution/home
44.	
See, for more details and discussion the following World Economic Forum reports: Putting Skills First: A Framework for 
Action, 2023; Putting Skills First: Opportunities for Building Efficient and Equitable Labour Markets, 2024.
45.	
Ibid.
46.	
Ibid.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
96


Appendix:  
Report Methodology
This report is based on an analysis of the results of 
the edition of an extensive survey of Chief People, 
Chief Learning Officers, Chief Strategy Offices 
and Chief Executive Officers of leading global 
employers. Established in 2015, the Future of Jobs 
Survey has been instrumental in providing insights 
into the evolution of jobs and skills and the future 
labour market. It is a pioneering measurement tool 
that enables companies and governments to map 
their workforce planning for the next five years. 
Survey data is collected across economies and 
industries, providing a compass for private- and 
public-sector leaders who strive to ensure a better 
future of work for all.  
Survey design 
The Future of Jobs Survey 2024 builds on the 
methodology from the previous survey editions. 
Following survey best practices and informed by 
literature review, several questions were refined and 
new questions were added. 
The survey consists of five interrelated parts. 
Business Trends 2024-2030 focuses on the 
macrotrends and technology adoption. It also 
examines the organizations’ transformation barriers. 
Occupation Trends 2024-2030 identifies the roles 
and how these are expected to evolve up until 
2030. It also studies how the macrotrends and 
technology trends contribute to the job growth 
and decline. Skill Trends 2024-2030 analyses the 
skills in demand and collects information on training 
programmes and employee reskilling needs and 
efforts. Workforce Practices 2024-2030 explores 
the talent strategies and talent-management 
practices in organizations. People and Technology 
assesses the automation and augmentation level 
at the job and task level, as well as companies’ 
approach to enabling people and technology 
working together.
The survey is comprised of 38 questions and was 
made available in 12 languages: Arabic, Bahasa 
Indonesia, Chinese (simplified), French, Hebrew, 
Japanese, Portuguese, Russian, Serbian, Spanish, 
Turkish and Vietnamese. The survey collection 
process was conducted via Qualtrics, with data 
collection spanning a four-month period from May 
to September 2024.
Representativeness
The survey set out to represent the current 
strategies, projections and estimates of global 
businesses, with a focus on large multinational 
companies and more localized companies which 
are of significance due to their employee or revenue 
size. As such, there are two areas of the future of 
jobs that remain out of scope for this report: the 
future of jobs as it relates to the activities of small 
enterprises and as it relates to the informal sector.
The Future of Jobs Survey was distributed through 
collaboration between the World Economic Forum 
and its regional survey partners, amplified by the 
World Economic Forum’s extensive network and 
its constituents. The survey is also the result of 
cross-departmental coordination within the World 
Economic Forum. The Forum’s Global Industries 
Team supported the report team’s efforts to collect 
relevant samples. For key partners in the survey 
distribution process, please refer to both the Survey 
Partners and Acknowledgements sections.
Detailed sample design specifications were shared 
with survey partners, requesting that the sample of 
companies targeted for participation in the survey 
should be drawn from a cross-section of leading 
companies that make up an economy or region’s 
economy. The target companies were specified as 
the largest multinational and national companies, 
significant in terms of revenue or employee size. 
The threshold was set at companies with 500 
employees or more as questions concerning 
job and skill outlook are most relevant for larger 
companies with a significant share of employment.
The final sub-selection of economies with data of 
sufficient quality to be featured in the report was 
based on the overall number of responses from 
companies with a presence in each economy. The 
survey has arrived at a sample in which more than 
half of the companies surveyed operate in more 
than one economy, and a reasonable range of 
companies maintained a focused local or regional 
presence. The final sub-selection of industries was 
included based on the overall number of responses 
by industry, in addition to a qualitative review of the 
pool of named companies represented in the survey 
data. The final sub-selection of regions and income 
groups was included based on the headquarter 
locations of the companies. 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025
97


After relevant criteria were applied, the sample 
was found to be composed of 22 industry 
clusters and 55 economies. Industry clusters 
include: Accommodation, Food, and Leisure; 
Advanced Manufacturing; Agriculture, Forestry, 
and Fishing; Automotive and Aerospace; 
Chemical and Advanced Materials; Education 
and Training; Electronics; Energy Technology and 
Utilities; Financial Services and Capital Markets; 
Government and Public Sector; Information 
and Technology Services; Infrastructure; 
Insurance and Pensions Management; Medical 
and Healthcare Services; Mining and Metals; 
Oil and Gas; Production of Consumer Goods; 
Professional Services; Real Estate; Retail and 
Wholesale of Consumer Goods; Supply Chain and 
Transportation; and Telecommunications. Refer to 
Table A1 for the list of industry clusters. Economies 
include Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Czechia, 
Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, France, Germany, 
Greece, Hong Kong SAR, China, Hungary, India, 
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, 
Republic of Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, 
Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saudi 
Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, 
Türkiye, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, 
United States of America, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam 
and Zimbabwe. Collectively, these economies 
represent 88% of global GDP. 
In total, the report’s dataset contains 1,043 unique 
responses by global companies, collectively 
representing more than 14.1 million employees 
worldwide. 
Classification frameworks for 
jobs and skills
This year’s report employed the Occupational 
Information Network (O*NET) framework, cross-
walked with the International Standard Classification 
of Occupations (ISCO). O*NET was developed 
by the US Department of Labour in collaboration 
with its Bureau of Labour Statistics’ Standard 
Classification of Occupations (SOC) and remains 
the most extensive and respected classification of 
its kind. ISCO is a classification system developed 
by the International Labour Organization (ILO) to 
organize information on jobs and labour. It is a part 
of the UN’s classification system for social and 
economic purposes. The list of roles used in the 
report has been enhanced with roles which were 
consistently added to previous editions of the report 
and refer to the emerging roles from data partner 
collaborations. 
Both the Future of Jobs survey and the Future 
of Jobs report use the World Economic Forum’s 
Global Skills Taxonomy to categorize skills (Table 
A2). Built on a foundation of data insights and 
ongoing inputs from our network of partners, the 
taxonomy focuses on the skills that are needed 
by workers across sectors and regions in a fast-
changing labour market. It is designed to serve 
as a “universal adapter” between data presented 
in the language of the many region and industry 
specific skills taxonomies in use. You may view the 
Global Skills Taxonomy on the Reskilling Revolution 
webpage. New data from the Future of Jobs Survey 
is presented in Chapter 3.
Taxonomy of industry categories
TA B L E  A 1
Industry cluster
Industry
Accommodation, Food and Leisure
Accommodation, Food and Leisure Services
Rental, Reservation and Leasing Services
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
Automotive and Aerospace
Automotive and Aerospace
Care, Personal Services and Wellbeing
Care and Social Work Services
Personal Care, Wellbeing and Repair Services
Education and Training
Education and Training
Energy and Materials
Chemical and Advanced Materials
Energy Technology and Utilities
Mining and Metals
Oil and Gas
Financial Services
Financial Services and Capital Markets
Insurance and Pensions Management
Future of Jobs Report 2025
98


Industry cluster
Industry
Government and Public Sector
Government and Public Sector
Health and Healthcare
Medical and Healthcare Services
Information Technology and Digital Communications
Information and Technology Services
Telecommunications
Infrastructure
Engineering and Construction
Water and Waste Management
Manufacturing
Advanced Manufacturing
Electronics
Production of Consumer Goods
Media, Entertainment and Sports
Arts, Entertainment and Recreation
Media and Publishing
Non-Governmental and Membership Organizations
Extraterritorial Organizations and Bodies
Non-Profit Organizations, Professional Bodies and Unions
Professional Services
Business Support and Premises Maintenance Services
Employment Services
Research, Design and Business Management Services
Real Estate
Real Estate
Retail and Wholesale of Consumer Goods
Retail and Wholesale of Consumer Goods
Supply Chain and Transportation
Supply Chain and Transportation
Taxonomy of industry categories
TA B L E  A 1
Metrics
Statistical samples presented in this report 
correspond to organizations’ self-reported 
economies and industries of operation. Each 
organization which responded to the Future of 
Jobs Survey was permitted to associate itself with 
up to 10 economies and up to three industries of 
operation.
Most metrics presented in this report are shares 
of respondents identifying their organization with 
a business strategy/impact or the mean value of a 
metric relating to business operations which was 
directly estimated by respondents. A small number 
of metrics relating to labour markets and skills 
are derived from information provided in different 
formats. These are described below.
Net growth in employment and labour-market 
churn
This edition of the Future of Jobs Report continues 
to estimate growth and labour-market churn in the 
next five years. Net growth represents the forecast 
increase or decrease in the size of a workforce, 
either as a fraction of its current size, or in millions 
of employees. Labour-market churn represents the 
sum of job losses and created jobs in a workforce 
as a fraction of its initial size. In this report both 
concepts are applied to roles in the jobs taxonomy 
(see Table A3) and industries in the industry 
taxonomy (see Table A1). The figures correspond 
to changes forecast by survey respondents for a 
five-year period between 2025 and 2030, with the 
survey being administered from May to August 
2024. Metrics relating to both concepts reflect 
forecast structural changes in employment across 
Future of Jobs Report 2025
99


companies, economies, industries and roles. 
Turnover induced by employees moving between 
jobs for personal reasons is not included.
Fractional metrics
Respondents aggregated roles included in the jobs 
taxonomy to six groups: 
	–
Main roles in the organization with a growing 
employment outlook for the next five years 
	–
Main roles in the organization with a declining 
employment outlook for the next five years 
	–
Main roles in the organization with a stable 
employment outlook for the next five years
	–
Roles that are relatively small presently but 
strategically important and with a growing 
employment outlook for the next five years
Respondents allocated up to five roles from the jobs 
taxonomy to each of the four groups. One of the five 
roles in the presently relatively small but strategically 
important and with a growing employment outlook 
could be specified by a free-text field. Free-text 
fields were subsequently allocated to jobs in the jobs 
taxonomy where possible. Metrics on roles are only 
published in the report when they meet statistical 
criteria in a given sample.
Respondents subsequently allocated workforce 
fractions to each of the above groups of jobs at 
present, and estimated the growth and decline of 
the main roles with growing outlook, main roles with 
declining outlook, and relatively small roles presently 
with growing outlook. These workforce fractions 
were used to calculate two metrics: estimated net 
growth between 2025 and 2030 and estimated 
structural labour-market churn from 2025 to 2030, 
for the labour forces pertaining to roles in the jobs 
taxonomy. In the calculation of net growth, for a 
specific role, a simple mean of the growth and 
decline was first calculated based on projection 
from the respondents who have selected this role, 
while the growth of the roles identified as stable 
outlook is zero. The net growth draws on weighted 
averages of the growth and decline weighted on the 
number of respondents who consider this role as 
growing and stable, with the numerator reflecting the 
weighted shares of anticipated workforce increases 
and decreases and the denominator aggregating 
total workforce shares across all anticipated states 
(growing, declining and stable). The churn metric, 
similarly, adopts absolute values for workforce 
decreases. These methodologies aim to present 
an objective, scalable perspective on workforce 
transformations at the role and industry level. 
Reweighted metrics 
International Labour Organization (ILO) data were 
then used to translate the forecast fractional net 
growth for each role into estimates of the number 
of jobs that will be created or displaced between 
2025 and 2030. ILO estimates of the number 
of employees in each occupational category of 
ISCO08 level 2 were used as a basis for the number 
of employees working at the time of publication. 
To account for the absence of China-specific data 
in the ILO’s employment-by-occupation dataset, 
a China employment multiplier was calculated 
based on the share of China’s employment figure 
in global employment figure and applied under the 
assumption that China’s labour market structure 
aligns with global patterns. To approximate the 
number of employees in each occupation of 
the jobs taxonomy used in the Future of Jobs 
Survey, the jobs taxonomy (a modified and 
extended version of the O*NET SOC occupational 
classification) was mapped to the ISCO08 
occupational taxonomy used in the ILO data by 
modifying and extending the map developed by the 
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, which connects 
SOC level 4 and ISCO08 level 4. Estimates of 
present employment were then multiplied by the 
fractional net growth estimates obtained from the 
survey, to estimate net growth worldwide in units of 
millions of employees.
Using this method, the Future of Jobs dataset 
described in Chapter 2 corresponds to 1.18 
billion employees. By comparison, the ILO dataset 
used in the analysis accounts for 2.18 billion 
employees, and 2.76 billion employees upon 
applying the China multiplier. The remaining 1.58 
billion employees correspond to roles for which 
the Future of Jobs Survey did not collect sufficient 
data to reliably estimate net growth. Data on 
employees rather than general employment was 
used as organizations responding to the Future of 
Jobs Survey maintain workers in formal rather than 
informal employment.
The estimates of the number of employees per 
sector which can be found in the Industry Profiles 
are based on the full dataset of 2.18 billion 
employees worldwide. This calculation is described 
in the user guide to the profiles.
Attribution to jobs
To analyze the impact of specific trends on job 
growth and decline, survey respondents attributed 
the growth and decline of roles to macrotrends 
and technology trends. Respondent’s weighted 
attribution was used to allocate a fraction of job 
changes to specific trends. These were then 
mapped to ILO occupation data to calculate the 
absolute number of jobs created and destroyed per 
occupation in the next five years.
Future of Jobs Report 2025 100


Skill taxonomy
Skills were selected from levels 3 and 4 of the Global Skills Taxonomy to represent skills of interest to organizations across sectors and 
economies.
TA B L E  A 2
Skill family
(level 1)
Skill cluster 
(level 2)
Skill
Attitudes
Ethics
Environmental stewardship
Global citizenship
Self-efficacy
Curiosity and lifelong learning
Dependability and attention to detail
Motivation and self-awareness
Resilience, flexibility and agility
Working with others
Empathy and active listening
Leadership and social influence
Teaching and mentoring
Skills, knowledge and abilities
Cognitive skills
Analytical thinking
Creative thinking
Multi-lingualism
Reading, writing and mathematics
Systems thinking
Engagement skills
Marketing and media
Service orientation and customer service
Management skills
Quality control
Resource management and operations
Talent management
Physical abilities
Manual dexterity, endurance and precision
Sensory-processing abilities
Technology skills
AI and big data
Design and user experience
Networks and cybersecurity
Programming
Technological literacy
To limit the potential impact of randomisation 
inherent in survey data, two techniques were 
employed: capping the maximum impact of a 
particular trend-job combination and removing 
attributions with an insufficient number of 
respondents. Specifically, the total impact of a 
single trend on a job was capped at the 99th 
percentile of all trend-job combinations, 1.61 million 
for job increase, and 1st percentile, minus 872 
thousand for job loss, and attribution pairs with 
fewer than three votes were excluded, with their 
impact categorized as unexplained.
Future of Jobs Report 2025 101


Job family
Occupation
Achitecture and Engineering
Architects and Surveyors
Biochemical and Biomedical Engineers
Chemical Engineers
Civil Engineers
Drafters, Engineering Technicians, and Mapping Technicians
Electrotechnology Engineers
Energy Engineers
Environmental Engineers
Industrial and Production Engineers
Materials Engineers
Mechanical Engineers
Mining Engineers, Metallurgists and Related Professionals
Nuclear Engineers
Renewable Energy Engineers
Robotics Engineers
Arts, Design, Entertainment, Sports and Media
Advertising and Public Relations Professionals
Broadcasting Technicians
Commercial and Industrial Designers
Entertainers and Performers, Sports and Related Workers
Fashion Designers
Graphic Designers
Handicraft Workers
Interior Designers
Media and Communication Workers
Photographers
Video Game Designers
Writers and Authors
Business and Financial Operations
Accountants and Auditors
Business Intelligence Analysts
Claims Adjusters, Examiners, and Investigators
Compliance Officers
Credit and Loans Officers
Digital Marketing and Strategy Specialists
Digital Transformation Specialists
Job taxonomy
The occupational taxonomy was modified and extended from O*NET SOC.
TA B L E  A 3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 102


Job family
Occupation
Business and Financial Operations
E-commerce Specialists
Financial Analysts
Financial and Investment Advisers
Human Resources Specialists
Insurance Underwriters, Valuers, and Loss Assessors
Investment Fund Managers
Management and Organisation Analysts
Recruiters and Technical Recruiters
Regulatory and Government Associate Professionals
Risk Management Specialists
Sales and Marketing Professionals
Social Media Strategist
Training and Development Specialists
Community, Social Service and Protective Services
Firefighting and Prevention Workers
Law Enforcement Workers, including Police Officers and Immigration 
Inspectors
Religious Professionals
Security Guards
Social Work and Counselling Professionals
Computer and Mathematical
AI and Machine Learning Specialists
Big Data Specialists
Blockchain Developers
Data Analysts and Scientists
Data Engineers
Data Warehousing Specialists
Database and Network Professionals
Database Architects
Devops Engineers
FinTech Engineers
Full Stack Engineers
ICT Operations and User Support Technicians
Information Security Analysts
Internet of Things Specialists
Mathematicians, Actuaries and Statisticians
Online Learning Managers
Job taxonomy
The occupational taxonomy was modified and extended from O*NET SOC.
TA B L E  A 3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 103


Job family
Occupation
Computer and Mathematical
Process Automation Specialists
Security Management Specialists
Software and Applications Developers
Software Testers
System Engineers
UI and UX Designers
Web Developers
Construction and Extraction
Building Framers, Finishers, and Related Trades Workers
Construction Laborers
Electrical Equipment Installers and Repairers
Mining, Petroleum and Other Extraction Workers
Education and Training
Primary School and Early Childhood Teachers
Secondary Education Teachers
Special Education Teachers
University and Higher Education Teachers
Vocational Education Teachers
Farming, Fishing, and Forestry
Farmworkers, Labourers, and Other Agricultural Workers
Fishing and Hunting Workers
Forestry Workers
Gardeners, Horticultural and Nursery Workers
Healthcare Practitioners and Technicians
Audiologists and Speech Therapists
Dentists and Associated Professions
Dietitians and Nutritionists
Environmental and Occupational Health and Hygiene Professionals
Epidemiologists and Public Health Specialists
Generalist Medical Practitioners
Health Technologists and Technicians
Midwifery Professionals
Nursing Professionals
Optometrists and Opticians
Paramedical and Emergency Medical Technicians
Personal Care Workers in Health Services
Pharmacists and Associated Professions
Physical Therapists
Job taxonomy
The occupational taxonomy was modified and extended from O*NET SOC.
TA B L E  A 3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 104


Job family
Occupation
Healthcare Practitioners and Technicians
Psychologists and Psychiatrists
Specialist Medical Practitioners
Traditional and Complementary Medicine Professionals
Veterinarians
Hospitality and Food Related
Baristas
Chefs and Cooks
Concierges and Hotel Desk Clerks
Event Managers
Food and Beverage Serving Workers
Food Service Counter Attendants
Hotel and Restaurant Managers
Legal
Arbitrators, Mediators, and Conciliators
Court Reporters
Judges
Judicial Law Clerks
Lawyers
Legal Secretaries
Paralegals and Legal Assistants
Title Examiners, Abstractors, and Searchers
Management
Business Services and Administration Managers
General and Operations Managers
Health and Education Services Managers
Legislators and Officials
Managing Directors and Chief Executives
Manufacturing, Mining, Construction, and Distribution Managers
Organisational Development Specialists
Product Managers
Production Managers in Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
Project Managers
Relationship Managers
Strategic Advisors
Manufacturing and Production
Assembly and Factory Workers
Chemical Processing Plant Operators
Food Processing and Related Trades Workers
Job taxonomy
The occupational taxonomy was modified and extended from O*NET SOC.
TA B L E  A 3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 105


Job family
Occupation
Manufacturing and Production
Garment and Related Trades Workers
Petroleum and Natural Gas Refining Plant Operators
Power Production Plant Operators
Printing and Related Trades Workers
Renewable Energy Technicians
Sheet and Structural Metal Workers, Moulders and Welders
Solar Energy Installation and System Engineers
Natural Science and Sustainability
Chemists and Chemical Laboratory Scientists
Environmental Protection Professionals
Food Scientists and Technologists
Life Scientists
Physical Scientists
Sustainability Specialists
Office and Administrative
Accounting, Bookkeeping and Payroll Clerks
Administrative Assistants and Executive Secretaries
Bank Tellers and Related Clerks
Client Information and Customer Service Workers
Data Entry Clerks
Material-Recording and Stock-Keeping Clerks
Postal Service Clerks
Statistical, Finance and Insurance Clerks
Personal Care, Maintenance and Installation
Building Caretakers, Cleaners and Housekeepers
Childcare Workers
Electronics and Telecommunications Installers and Repairers
Hairdressers, Beauticians and Related Workers
Home Appliance Installers and Repairers
Mechanics and Machinery Repairers
Personal Care Aides
Sports and Fitness Workers
Sales
Business Development Professionals
Cashiers and Ticket Clerks
Door-To-Door Sales Workers, News and Street Vendors, and Related 
Workers
Real Estate Sales Agents
Job taxonomy
The occupational taxonomy was modified and extended from O*NET SOC.
TA B L E  A 3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 106


Job family
Occupation
Sales
Sales and Purchasing Agents and Brokers
Sales Representatives, Wholesale and Manufacturing, Technical and 
Scientific Products
Securities and Finance Dealers and Brokers
Shop Salespersons
Telemarketers
Social Science
Economists
Social Science Research Assistants
Social Scientists and Related Workers
Survey Researchers
Transportation and Logistics
Autonomous and Electric Vehicle Specialists
Car, Van and Motorcycle Drivers
Commercial Pilots
Flight Attendants
Heavy Truck and Bus Drivers
Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers
Locomotive Engine Drivers and Related Workers
Postal Service Mail Carriers
Refuse Workers
Supply Chain and Logistics Specialists
Transportation Attendants and Conductors
Transportation Inspectors
Water Transportation Workers, including Ship and Marine Cargo Workers, 
Controllers, and Technicians
Job taxonomy
The occupational taxonomy was modified and extended from O*NET SOC.
TA B L E  A 3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 107


User Guide
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Economy, Region, and Industry Profiles
Economy, Region, and Industry Profiles present 
data findings from the Future of Jobs Survey 
through these respective lenses, with the aim of 
providing specific practical information to decision-
makers and experts in academia, business, 
government and civil society. Complementing the 
cross-industry and cross-economy analysis of 
results in the Future of Jobs Report, this section 
provides deeper granularity for given industries, 
regions and economies through dedicated profiles. 
Additionally, the profiles are intended to enable 
interested companies and policy-makers with 
the opportunity to benchmark their organization 
or economy against the range of expectations 
prevalent in their industry or region. This User’s 
Guide provides an overview of the information 
contained in the various profiles and their 
appropriate interpretation.
1. Hard data contextual indicators:
This section aims to provide the reader with the 
latest available data from contextual indicators on 
an economy’s labour market. 
Working age population
The total working age population is displayed in 
the top right corner of the page for the economy 
profile. The working-age population is the number 
of people aged 25 and over. In addition to using a 
minimum age threshold, certain countries also apply 
a maximum age limit. 
Period: 2020 or latest available data (accessed 
November 2024) 
Source: ILOSTAT, International Labour Organization
Labour force participation
The labour force participation rate is the labour 
force as a percentage of the working-age 
population of people aged 25 and over. The labour 
force is the sum of all persons of working age who 
are employed and those who are unemployed. 
Period: 2020 or latest available data (accessed 
November 2024) 
Source: ILOSTAT, International Labour Organization
Share of youth not in employment, education, 
or training, ILO modelled estimates (NEET)
This indicator refers to the proportion of youth who 
are not in employment and not in education or 
training. Youth not in education are those who were 
neither enrolled in school nor in a formal training 
program (e.g. vocational training).
Period: 2019 or latest available data (accessed 
November 2024) 
Source: ILOSTAT, International Labour Organization
Unemployment rate
The unemployment rate conveys the number of 
persons who are unemployed as a percentage 
of the labour force (i.e., the employed plus the 
unemployed). 
Period: 2020 or latest available data (accessed 
November 2024) 
Source: ILOSTAT, International Labour Organization
Unemployment rate among workers with basic 
and advanced education
The unemployment rate conveys the number of 
persons who are unemployed as a percentage 
of the labour force (i.e., the employed plus the 
unemployed). Data disaggregated by level of 
education are provided on the highest level of 
education completed, classified according to the 
International Standard Classification of Education 
(ISCED).
Period: 2023 (accessed November 2024) 
Source: ILOSTAT, International Labour Organization
Vulnerable employment, total (% of total 
employment), ILO modelled estimates
Vulnerable employment is contributing family 
workers and own-account workers as a percentage 
of total employment.
Period: 2022 (accessed November 2024) 
Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators 
database. Estimates are based on data obtained 
from International Labour Organization, ILOSTAT
Secondary education attainment
The percentage of population aged 25 and over 
that attained or completed upper secondary 
education.
Period: 2019 or latest available data (accessed 
November 2024) 
Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators 
Future of Jobs Report 2025 108


database. UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS).
Tertiary education attainment
The percentage of population aged 25 and over 
that attained or completed tertiary education.
Period: 2020 or latest available data (accessed 
November 2024) 
Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators 
database. UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS)
Ease of finding skilled employees in local 
labour market
Score computed based on the average response 
of companies operating in this country to the 
Executive Opinion Survey question “In your country, 
to what extent can companies find people with 
the skills required to fill their vacancies in the local 
labour market?” [1 = Not at all; 7 = To a great 
extent]. 
Period: 2023-2024 weighted average 
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion 
Survey
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign labour
Score computed based on the average response 
of companies operating in this country to the 
Executive Opinion Survey question “In your country, 
to what extent can companies find people with the 
skills required to fill their vacancies by hiring foreign 
labour?” [1 = Not at all; 7 = To a great extent]. 
Period: 2023-2024 weighted average 
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion 
Survey
Country investment in mid-career training
Score computed based on the average response 
of companies operating in this country to the 
Executive Opinion Survey question “In your country, 
to what extent does government invest in mid-
career reskilling and upskilling opportunities?” [1 = 
Not at all; 7 = To a great extent]. 
Period: 2023-2024 weighted average 
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion 
Survey
2. Labour-market churn
This figure is the five-year structural labour-market 
churn of surveyed employers that operate in the 
respective economy, region or industry, compared 
with the global average. Labour-market churn 
refers to the pace of reallocation of workers and 
jobs. The Future of Jobs Survey provides insight 
into structural labour-market churn, namely, the 
number of expected new jobs, plus the number of 
roles expected to be displaced during the period, 
divided by the size of the labour force in question. 
Structural churn disregards the ‘natural’ churn 
of workers moving between jobs for business or 
personal reasons. For more information, please 
refer to Appendix A.
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
3. Disruption to skills
This figure shows the average of estimates of 
surveyed employers that operate in the respective 
economy, region or industry, compared with the 
global average, for the question “what proportion of 
the core skills required by your workforce will remain 
the same?”, compared to the global average.  
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
4. Organizations with DEI priorities
This figure shows the share of surveyed employers 
with diversity, equity and inclusion priorities that 
operate in the respective economy, region or 
industry, compared with the global average. 
The figure is calculated based on the share of 
respondents who select “My organization doesn’t 
have DEI priorities” for the question “What are likely 
to be the key components your workforce diversity, 
equity and inclusion (DEI) priorities by 2030?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
5. Exposure to AI disruption
This figure shows the share of surveyed employers 
with high exposure to AI that operate in the 
respective economy, region or industry, compared 
to the global average. The figure is calculated based 
on the share of respondents who do not select 
“My organization has low exposure to AI” for the 
question “Which strategies is your organization likely 
to implement by 2030, in response AI’s increasing 
capability and prevalence?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
6. Macrotrends driving business transformation
This bar chart shows the share of employers 
surveyed that identify the macrotrends as likely to 
drive transformation in the respective economy, 
region or industry, compared to the global average. 
It is based on the response to the question “By 
2030, which of the following trends are likely to 
drive transformation in your organization?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
Future of Jobs Report 2025 109


7. Technology trends driving business 
transformation
This bar chart shows the share of employers 
surveyed that identify the corresponding technology 
trends as likely to drive transformation in the 
respective economy, region or industry, compared 
to the global average. It is based on the response 
to the question “By 2030, which of the following 
trends are likely to drive transformation in your 
organization?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
8. Key roles for business transformation
This table provides an overview of the top roles 
for industry transformation from 2025 until 2030. 
The list cites the most frequently selected roles of 
surveyed employers that operate in the respective 
economy, region or industry. Net growth represents 
the forecast increase or decrease in the size of a 
workforce. Churn represents the sum of job losses 
and created jobs in a workforce as a fraction of its 
initial size.
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
9. Core skills in 2025 and skills on the rise by 
2030
This bar chart and table shows the top core skills 
in 2025 and skills with the most increase in use by 
2030 in the respective economy, region or industry. 
The data is based on the question “Currently, what 
are the core skills workers need to perform well 
in the key roles of your organisation?” and “For 
your organisation’s key roles, would you expect 
an increase or decrease in the use of the following 
skills by 2030?”, compared to the global average. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
10. Upskilling and reskilling outlook
The data shows the breakdown of the typical 
training outlook for a representative group of 100 
workers, calculated based on averages of the 
training strategies reported by employers surveyed 
in the respective economy, region and industry, 
compared to the global average.
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
11. Shifting human-machine frontier
The bar chart shows share of total work tasks 
expected to be delivered predominantly by human 
workers, by technology (machines and algorithms), 
or by a combination of both, in the respective 
economy, region or industry, based on the question 
“What proportion of time spent, on average 
across all tasks in your organization, is currently 
performed predominantly by technology (machines, 
algorithms etc.), predominantly by humans, or by a 
combination of the two?”, compared to the global 
average. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
12. Public policies to increase talent availability
This table shows top public policies, ranked by the 
share of employers identifying the stated public 
policies as promising to increase talent availability 
in the respective economy or region, compared to 
global averages. This is the result of the question 
“Which public-policy measures are likely to 
significantly increase the availability of talent to your 
organization by 2030?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
13. Business practices to improve talent 
availability
This table shows top business practices, ranked 
by the share of employers identifying the stated 
business practices as promising to increase talent 
availability in the respective industry, compared to 
global averages. This is the result of the question 
“Which business practices have the greatest 
potential to increase the availability of talent to your 
organization by 2030?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
14. Barriers to organisational transformation
The bar chart shows top barriers ranked by the 
share of employers surveyed expecting that 
the stated barrier will hinder their organisational 
transformation in the respective economy, region or 
industry, compared to global averages. This is the 
result of the question “What are the major barriers 
to achieving your organization’s goals by 2030?”.
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
15. Wage outlook
The bar chart shows the share of employers 
projecting the share of wages and other forms of 
workers’ compensation as a percentage of the 
company’s total revenues, based on the question 
“By 2030, as percentage of the company’s total 
Future of Jobs Report 2025 110


revenues, wages and other forms of workers’ 
compensation will represent a growing share 
compared to today, a similar share as today, or a 
declining share compared to today”, compared to 
the global average. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
16. Talent trends
This bar chart shows the share of employers 
surveyed expecting a positive, neutral and negative 
outlook for talent availability, talent development 
and talent retention over the next five years in the 
respective economy, region or industry. It is based 
on the response to the question “How would you 
rate talent availability, development and retention in 
your organization by 2030?”. Net effect is calculated 
by the share of employers who expect their talent 
availability to improve or improve significantly minus 
the share of employers who expect their talent 
availability to worsen or worsen significantly.   
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
17. Planned implementation of diversity, equity 
and inclusion measures
This table shows the top diversity, equity and 
inclusion actions ranked by the share of employers 
surveyed which plan to implement the stated 
measure in the respective economy, region or 
industry, compared with global averages. This is the 
result of the question “What are likely to be the key 
components your workforce diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DEI) priorities by 2030?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
18. Workforce strategy in response to AI
This table shows the top workforce strategies in 
response to AI ranked by the share of employers 
surveyed planning to implement the stated 
strategy in response to AI’s increasing capability 
and prevalence in respective economy, region or 
industry, compared with global averages. This 
is the result of the question “Which strategies 
is your organization likely to implement by 
2030, in response AI’s increasing capability and 
prevalence?”. 
Period: 2024 
Source: World Economic Forum, Future of Jobs 
Survey
Future of Jobs Report 2025 111


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
68%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
24%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
15%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment -
NA
Tertiary Education Attainment
-
NA
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
2
Jobs and Skills outlook
19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
42%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
86%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
100%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
70%
47%
Broadening digital access
70%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
44%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
44%
50%
Slower economic growth
44%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
35%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
26%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
26%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
17%
17%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
17%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
17%
40%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
96%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
57%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
48%
41%
New materials and composites
39%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
30%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
26%
18%
Quantum and encryption
22%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
9%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
4%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Data Analysts and Scientists
85
41
85
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
81
82
81
Business Development
Professionals
11
19
11
General and Operations
Managers
8
4
19
Accountants and Auditors
-5
-8
5
Data Entry Clerks
-24
-26
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
88%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
88%
Empathy and active listening
81%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Creative thinking
69%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
100%
Creative thinking
94%
Technological literacy
88%
Design and user experience
81%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
81%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Argentina
Working Age Population (Millions)
18.2
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 112


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
41
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
48% 26% 26%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 26% 45%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Improvements to public education systems
64%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
50%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
50%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
50%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
36%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
57%
39%
Organization culture and resistance to change
48%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
44%
37%
Shortage of investment capital
30%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
21% 79%
0%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
64%
-100%
+100%
21%
Talent development of existing workforce
14%
-100%
+100%
57%
Talent retention of existing workforce
29%
-100%
+100%
21%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
86
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
71
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
57
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
93
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
71
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
71
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Argentina
Working Age Population (Millions)
18.2
Future of Jobs Report 2025 113


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
67%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
10%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
79%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
47%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
24%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
88%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
88%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
68%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
61%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
56%
41%
Slower economic growth
53%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
53%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
53%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
46%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
44%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
27%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
18%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
94%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
55%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
46%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
27%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
27%
20%
New materials and composites
24%
30%
Quantum and encryption
23%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
10%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
9%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
361
82
361
Data Analysts and Scientists
34
41
36
Sustainability Specialists
24
33
24
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
4
5
7
Human Resources Specialists
3
5
12
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-18
-18
30
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
76%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
59%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
59%
Creative thinking
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
91%
Technological literacy
79%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
76%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
74%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Australia
Working Age Population (Millions)
18.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 114


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
32
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
33
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
14
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 29% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 33% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
49%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
49%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
49%
52%
Changes to immigration laws
45%
26%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
37%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
45%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
43%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
41%
32%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
33%
27%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
45% 47%
8%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
35%
-100%
+100%
29%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
65%
Talent retention of existing workforce
22%
-100%
+100%
31%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
65
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
63
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
61
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
92
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
86
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
68
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Australia
Working Age Population (Millions)
18.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 115


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
62%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
8%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
13%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
11%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
83%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
21%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
10%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
100%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
100%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
64%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
57%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
50%
41%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
43%
47%
Slower economic growth
43%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
39%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
39%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
36%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
25%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
21%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
18%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
18%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
89%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
54%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
46%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
25%
20%
Quantum and encryption
14%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
14%
18%
New materials and composites
11%
30%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
37
82
37
Data Analysts and Scientists
26
41
26
Business Intelligence Analysts
22
18
22
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
4
5
5
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-13
-20
13
Assembly and Factory Workers
-22
0
23
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
86%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
68%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
64%
Technological literacy
64%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
96%
Creative thinking
82%
Networks and cybersecurity
77%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Technological literacy
73%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Austria
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.8
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 116


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
29
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
27
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
36% 43% 21%
48% 30% 22%
2030
26% 42% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Improvements to public education systems
58%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
53%
36%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
53%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
47%
44%
Wage subsidies
42%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
64%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
57%
46%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
39%
25%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
29%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
29%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
35% 65%
0%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
47%
-100%
+100%
26%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
58%
Talent retention of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
37%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
50
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
50
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
45
Global 27
Embed DEI goals and solutions across
the supply chain
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
84
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
74
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
74
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Austria
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.8
Future of Jobs Report 2025 117


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
-
NA
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
1%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
-
NA
Unemployment rate
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
-
NA
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
67%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
40%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
6
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
33%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
42%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
62%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
92%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
59%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
50%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
46%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
41%
41%
Slower economic growth
41%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
36%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
32%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
27%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
23%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
18%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
9%
17%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
5%
40%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
86%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
46%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
41%
41%
New materials and composites
27%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
18%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
18%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
14%
9%
Quantum and encryption
9%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
9%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Business Intelligence Analysts
30
18
30
Business Development
Professionals
16
19
16
Compliance Ofﬁcers
5
11
13
Accountants and Auditors
3
-8
16
Data Entry Clerks
-45
-26
51
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-54
-20
59
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Leadership and social inﬂuence
68%
Creative thinking
68%
Motivation and self-awareness
58%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
58%
AI and big data
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Technological literacy
71%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
AI and big data
67%
Talent management
65%
Creative thinking
65%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Bahrain
Working Age Population (Millions)
N/A
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 118


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
48
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
24
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
14
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
13
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
52% 27% 21%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 31% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
62%
55%
Changes to pension schemes and retirement ages
54%
25%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
54%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
54%
47%
Wage subsidies
54%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
67%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
57%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
43%
37%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
38%
25%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
38%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
77% 23%
0%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
8%
-100%
+100%
38%
Talent development of existing workforce
10%
-100%
+100%
69%
Talent retention of existing workforce
31%
-100%
+100%
69%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
39
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
31
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
31
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
69
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
62
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
54
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Bahrain
Working Age Population (Millions)
N/A
Future of Jobs Report 2025 119


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
59%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
11%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
10%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
75%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
40%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
22%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
86%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
64%
47%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
58%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
56%
50%
Broadening digital access
53%
60%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
47%
46%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
44%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
44%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
24%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
20%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
16%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
89%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
64%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
53%
41%
New materials and composites
36%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
24%
20%
Quantum and encryption
18%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
13%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
11%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
9%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
69
82
69
Data Analysts and Scientists
24
41
24
Business Intelligence Analysts
10
18
20
Business Development
Professionals
8
19
8
General and Operations
Managers
-7
4
17
Data Entry Clerks
-31
-26
31
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
83%
Analytical thinking
70%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
67%
Motivation and self-awareness
57%
Empathy and active listening
50%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
79%
Environmental stewardship
75%
Talent management
72%
Technological literacy
72%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Belgium
Working Age Population (Millions)
8.3
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 120


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
39
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
51% 27% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 30% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
59%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
56%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
52%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
44%
36%
Flexibility on setting wages
44%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
58%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
49%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
44%
37%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
38%
25%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
38%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
49% 44%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
50%
-100%
+100%
21%
Talent development of existing workforce
7%
-100%
+100%
63%
Talent retention of existing workforce
37%
-100%
+100%
37%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
64
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
61
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
57
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
89
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
70
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
70
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Belgium
Working Age Population (Millions)
8.3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 121


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
65%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
28%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
21%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
60%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
22%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
24%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
92%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
96%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
59%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
53%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
49%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
49%
50%
Slower economic growth
48%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
47%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
41%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
37%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
28%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
23%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
23%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
21%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
92%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
64%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
42%
41%
New materials and composites
37%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
27%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
26%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
19%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
14%
9%
Quantum and encryption
14%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
64
82
64
Data Analysts and Scientists
46
41
46
Business Development
Professionals
16
19
16
General and Operations
Managers
-2
4
12
Assembly and Factory Workers
-4
0
17
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-22
-20
23
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
80%
Analytical thinking
70%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
67%
Creative thinking
64%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
63%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Creative thinking
71%
Technological literacy
69%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
65%
Networks and cybersecurity
64%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Brazil
Working Age Population (Millions)
140.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 122


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
33
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
24
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
47% 34% 19%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 35% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
57%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
52%
47%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
49%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
49%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
31%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
59%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
45%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
38%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
32%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
31%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
34% 57%
8%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
48%
-100%
+100%
23%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
75%
Talent retention of existing workforce
24%
-100%
+100%
45%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
68
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
59
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
54
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
91
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
73
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
71
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Brazil
Working Age Population (Millions)
140.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 123


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
66%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
10%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
90%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
68%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
22%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
96%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
70%
60%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
58%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
54%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
52%
41%
Slower economic growth
52%
42%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
47%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
42%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
41%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
30%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
27%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
16%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
97%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
54%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
40%
41%
New materials and composites
24%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
21%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
17%
18%
Quantum and encryption
14%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
11%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
6%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
103
82
103
Data Analysts and Scientists
36
41
37
Lawyers
3
2
10
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
-2
5
3
Business Services and
Administration Managers
-4
-7
15
Accountants and Auditors
-6
-8
10
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
77%
Analytical thinking
76%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
68%
Technological literacy
66%
Creative thinking
64%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
90%
Networks and cybersecurity
76%
Technological literacy
75%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
70%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Canada
Working Age Population (Millions)
27.9
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 124


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
32
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
25
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
48% 33% 20%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 38% 33%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
54%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
48%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
46%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
42%
47%
Changes to immigration laws
40%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
63%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
41%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
37%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
34%
32%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
27%
25%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
46% 42% 12%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
34%
-100%
+100%
26%
Talent development of existing workforce
2%
-100%
+100%
64%
Talent retention of existing workforce
18%
-100%
+100%
32%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
74
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
62
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
58
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
90
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
78
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
71
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Canada
Working Age Population (Millions)
27.9
Future of Jobs Report 2025 125


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
-
NA
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
42%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
-
NA
Unemployment rate
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
-
NA
Secondary Education Attainment (2020)
32%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2020)
16%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2022)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2022)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
18%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
33%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
92%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
64%
47%
Broadening digital access
62%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
56%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
56%
34%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
50%
50%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
47%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
33%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
32%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
23%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
22%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
90%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
65%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
47%
41%
New materials and composites
43%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
32%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
23%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
19%
11%
Quantum and encryption
17%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
208
82
208
Data Analysts and Scientists
46
41
46
Business Development
Professionals
15
19
15
General and Operations
Managers
-3
4
8
Assembly and Factory Workers
-4
0
18
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-18
-20
19
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
76%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
63%
Creative thinking
62%
Motivation and self-awareness
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
88%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Creative thinking
66%
Technological literacy
62%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
61%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
China
Working Age Population (Millions)
1008.8
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 126


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
28
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 33% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 37% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
53%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
52%
44%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
44%
52%
Changes to immigration laws
37%
26%
Improvements to public education systems
37%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
50%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
49%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
38%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
32%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
31%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
47% 46%
8%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
45%
-100%
+100%
26%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
68%
Talent retention of existing workforce
19%
-100%
+100%
34%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
55
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
50
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
47
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
87
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
65
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
65
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
China
Working Age Population (Millions)
1008.8
Future of Jobs Report 2025 127


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
69%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
44%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
23%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
8%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
57%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
27%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
14%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
44%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
100%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
100%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
61%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
48%
47%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
44%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
35%
41%
Slower economic growth
35%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
35%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
35%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
26%
50%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
17%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
17%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
91%
86%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
52%
41%
Robots and autonomous systems
48%
58%
New materials and composites
26%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
13%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
9%
9%
Quantum and encryption
9%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
9%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
4%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
27
82
27
Renewable Energy Engineers
22
38
22
Sustainability Specialists
21
33
21
Data Analysts and Scientists
15
41
15
Lawyers
-1
2
7
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-24
-20
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
88%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
81%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
81%
Creative thinking
75%
Empathy and active listening
69%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
94%
Talent management
88%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
88%
Creative thinking
88%
Empathy and active listening
81%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Colombia
Working Age Population (Millions)
31.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 128


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
45
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
8
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
48% 29% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 29% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
60%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
60%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
53%
36%
Flexibility on setting wages
40%
38%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
40%
44%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
61%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
35%
37%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
26%
25%
Organization culture and resistance to change
22%
46%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
36% 57%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
40%
-100%
+100%
47%
Talent development of existing workforce
7%
-100%
+100%
67%
Talent retention of existing workforce
47%
-100%
+100%
47%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
60
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
47
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
47
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
71
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
71
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
71
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Colombia
Working Age Population (Millions)
31.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 129


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
64%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
14%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
1%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
91%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
23%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
3
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
13%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
30%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
94%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
82%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
65%
47%
Broadening digital access
61%
60%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
61%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
48%
50%
Slower economic growth
48%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
48%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
44%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
39%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
30%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
17%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
17%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
87%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
65%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
65%
41%
New materials and composites
35%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
26%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
17%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
4%
9%
Quantum and encryption
4%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
4%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
63
82
63
Data Engineers
43
36
43
Business Intelligence Analysts
16
18
29
Human Resources Specialists
4
5
4
Assembly and Factory Workers
-13
0
17
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-20
-20
20
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
75%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
65%
Creative thinking
60%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
50%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
95%
Networks and cybersecurity
78%
Technological literacy
67%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
67%
Systems thinking
61%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Czech Republic
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 130


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 35% 20%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 36% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
59%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
47%
44%
Wage subsidies
47%
26%
Flexibility on setting wages
41%
38%
Improvements to public education systems
35%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
61%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
44%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
39%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
30%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
30%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
35% 65%
0%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
53%
-100%
+100%
6%
Talent development of existing workforce
12%
-100%
+100%
65%
Talent retention of existing workforce
18%
-100%
+100%
41%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
47
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
35
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
29
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
71
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
71
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
71
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Czech Republic
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 131


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
64%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
6%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
77%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
37%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
10%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
28%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
100%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
56%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
52%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
48%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
48%
34%
Broadening digital access
44%
60%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
44%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
33%
50%
Slower economic growth
30%
42%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
26%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
15%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
11%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
96%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
63%
58%
New materials and composites
30%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
30%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
22%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
11%
9%
Quantum and encryption
7%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
7%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
55
82
55
Data Analysts and Scientists
40
41
40
Financial Analysts
8
3
16
Accountants and Auditors
-1
-8
8
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-9
-20
9
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-10
-18
10
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
95%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Motivation and self-awareness
70%
Creative thinking
60%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
95%
Networks and cybersecurity
79%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
75%
Creative thinking
65%
Technological literacy
63%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Denmark
Working Age Population (Millions)
4.3
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 132


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
37
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
54% 30% 16%
48% 30% 22%
2030
36% 37% 27%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
63%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
63%
52%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
53%
44%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
42%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
42%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
56%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
52%
46%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
30%
25%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
30%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
26%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
32% 47% 21%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
63%
-100%
+100%
16%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
79%
Talent retention of existing workforce
21%
-100%
+100%
26%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
74
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
58
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
47
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
90
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
84
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
68
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Denmark
Working Age Population (Millions)
4.3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 133


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2022)
50%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
24%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2022)
27%
Unemployment rate
(2022)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2022)
11%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
54%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
17%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
17%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
48%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
70%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
78%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
61%
50%
Slower economic growth
50%
42%
Broadening digital access
49%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
41%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
39%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
36%
47%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
35%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
26%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
26%
40%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
18%
17%
Growing working-age
populations
17%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
79%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
51%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
35%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
29%
20%
New materials and composites
27%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
13%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
6%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Quantum and encryption
5%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Industrial and Production
Engineers
9
15
9
Assembly and Factory Workers
5
0
20
Electrotechnology Engineers
4
15
4
Accountants and Auditors
-1
-8
10
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
-1
5
5
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-16
-18
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Creative thinking
63%
Analytical thinking
48%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
46%
Technological literacy
46%
AI and big data
45%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
73%
Technological literacy
72%
Networks and cybersecurity
69%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
62%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
62%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Egypt
Working Age Population (Millions)
51.4
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 134


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
49
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
28
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
16
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
7
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
42% 22% 35%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 25% 45%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
54%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
54%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
52%
47%
Wage subsidies
46%
26%
Flexibility on setting wages
40%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
73%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
33%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
33%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
33%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
31%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
58% 28% 14%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
16%
-100%
+100%
55%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
77%
Talent retention of existing workforce
6%
-100%
+100%
59%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
33
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
33
Global 26
Support workers with caregiving
responsibilities
32
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
65
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
50
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
50
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Egypt
Working Age Population (Millions)
51.4
Future of Jobs Report 2025 135


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
70%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
6%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
10%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
9%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
86%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
40%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
13%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
58%
40%
Slower economic growth
50%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
46%
46%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
42%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
42%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
38%
24%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
29%
47%
Broadening digital access
29%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
21%
41%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
17%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
13%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
83%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
58%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
38%
41%
New materials and composites
17%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
8%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
8%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
4%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
49
82
49
Data Analysts and Scientists
30
41
30
Business Intelligence Analysts
16
18
16
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
14
5
14
General and Operations
Managers
7
4
10
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-13
-18
13
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
95%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
65%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
60%
Technological literacy
60%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
85%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
80%
Technological literacy
75%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
70%
Networks and cybersecurity
60%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Estonia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1.0
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 136


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
32
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
35
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
23
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
42% 40% 18%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 40% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
50%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
50%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
50%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
50%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
45%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
79%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
42%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
33%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
29%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
21%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
45% 45% 10%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
70%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent development of existing workforce
10%
-100%
+100%
55%
Talent retention of existing workforce
40%
-100%
+100%
40%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
60
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
55
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
50
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
75
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
60
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
55
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Estonia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1.0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 137


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
59%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
8%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
11%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
5%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
78%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
37%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
33%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
93%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
57%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
55%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
54%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
49%
41%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
49%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
47%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
47%
34%
Slower economic growth
40%
42%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
24%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
92%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
63%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
42%
41%
New materials and composites
34%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
31%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
20%
18%
Quantum and encryption
19%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
17%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
11%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
72
82
72
Data Analysts and Scientists
26
41
27
Business Development
Professionals
14
19
14
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
0
5
4
General and Operations
Managers
-4
4
11
Assembly and Factory Workers
-8
0
19
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Analytical thinking
72%
Motivation and self-awareness
59%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
56%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
53%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
92%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
70%
Technological literacy
68%
Environmental stewardship
65%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
France
Working Age Population (Millions)
47.2
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 138


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
38
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 32% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 33% 35%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
54%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
52%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
52%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
41%
36%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
38%
44%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
55%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
43%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
41%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
36%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
49% 44%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
50%
-100%
+100%
31%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
63%
Talent retention of existing workforce
23%
-100%
+100%
27%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
57
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
55
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
49
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
82
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
76
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
70
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
France
Working Age Population (Millions)
47.2
Future of Jobs Report 2025 139


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
62%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
5%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
81%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
30%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
21%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
34%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
93%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
92%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
63%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
60%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
52%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
51%
41%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
48%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
48%
50%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
39%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
28%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
25%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
23%
17%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
93%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
67%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
42%
41%
New materials and composites
31%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
31%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
24%
18%
Quantum and encryption
18%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
15%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
13%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
71
82
71
Data Analysts and Scientists
34
41
35
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
0
5
3
General and Operations
Managers
0
4
7
Assembly and Factory Workers
-5
0
18
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-18
-20
19
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
74%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
70%
Creative thinking
59%
Motivation and self-awareness
58%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
90%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
67%
Networks and cybersecurity
67%
Technological literacy
65%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Germany
Working Age Population (Millions)
63.8
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 140


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 33% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 35% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
54%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
50%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
45%
47%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
44%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
36%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
57%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
50%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
37%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
35%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
49% 45%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
50%
-100%
+100%
25%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
67%
Talent retention of existing workforce
21%
-100%
+100%
37%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
56
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
53
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
50
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
84
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
73
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
65
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Germany
Working Age Population (Millions)
63.8
Future of Jobs Report 2025 141


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
56%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
30%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
13%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
10%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
8%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
69%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
30%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
7%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
39%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
83%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
83%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
74%
60%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
63%
46%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
58%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
53%
47%
Slower economic growth
53%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
37%
41%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
32%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
21%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
21%
17%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
21%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
16%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
90%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
68%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
37%
41%
Quantum and encryption
21%
12%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
21%
20%
New materials and composites
16%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
16%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
11%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
19
82
19
Project Managers
18
17
18
Human Resources Specialists
15
5
20
Business Intelligence Analysts
14
18
14
General and Operations
Managers
2
4
2
Financial Analysts
0
3
7
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Empathy and active listening
67%
Analytical thinking
67%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
60%
Creative thinking
53%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Technological literacy
83%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
83%
AI and big data
79%
Creative thinking
77%
Design and user experience
67%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Greece
Working Age Population (Millions)
8.0
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 142


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
35
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
35
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
23
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
8
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 29% 26%
48% 30% 22%
2030
28% 35% 36%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
82%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
64%
52%
Wage subsidies
64%
26%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
55%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
46%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
58%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
53%
37%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
32%
25%
Organization culture and resistance to change
26%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
21%
27%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
42% 58%
0%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
25%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
8%
-100%
+100%
58%
Talent retention of existing workforce
17%
-100%
+100%
25%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
67
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
58
Global 27
Embed DEI goals and solutions across
the supply chain
58
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
75
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
67
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
67
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Greece
Working Age Population (Millions)
8.0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 143


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
60%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
6%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
66%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
25%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2023)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2023)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
15%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
94%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
60%
60%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
60%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
56%
47%
Slower economic growth
52%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
48%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
44%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
44%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
40%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
36%
23%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
32%
50%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
8%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
92%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
60%
58%
New materials and composites
40%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
32%
41%
Quantum and encryption
16%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
16%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
12%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
12%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
8%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Data Analysts and Scientists
26
41
26
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
26
82
26
Digital Transformation Specialists
21
35
21
Lawyers
8
2
15
Compliance Ofﬁcers
7
11
9
Accountants and Auditors
-3
-8
7
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Leadership and social inﬂuence
90%
Service orientation and customer service
84%
Analytical thinking
84%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
74%
Creative thinking
68%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
94%
Networks and cybersecurity
88%
Technological literacy
79%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
79%
Environmental stewardship
71%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Hong Kong SAR, China
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.1
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 144


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
34
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
35
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 31% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
28% 28% 43%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
53%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
53%
52%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
41%
44%
Flexibility on setting wages
29%
38%
Improvements to public education systems
29%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
52%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
44%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
32%
27%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
18% 65% 17%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
41%
-100%
+100%
41%
Talent development of existing workforce
6%
-100%
+100%
71%
Talent retention of existing workforce
18%
-100%
+100%
47%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
82
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
59
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
53
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
94
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
65
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
59
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Hong Kong SAR, China
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.1
Future of Jobs Report 2025 145


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
65%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
8%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
10%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
11%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
1%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
83%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
27%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
3
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
17%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
36%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
100%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
92%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
70%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
70%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
65%
47%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
65%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
55%
46%
Slower economic growth
50%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
50%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
40%
24%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
35%
41%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
15%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
15%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
5%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
85%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
75%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
40%
41%
New materials and composites
20%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
15%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Quantum and encryption
5%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
5%
18%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
94
82
94
Business Intelligence Analysts
11
18
20
Human Resources Specialists
-5
5
8
General and Operations
Managers
-11
4
14
Assembly and Factory Workers
-18
0
27
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-31
-18
31
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
86%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
79%
Motivation and self-awareness
79%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
64%
Creative thinking
57%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Networks and cybersecurity
86%
Technological literacy
79%
Creative thinking
79%
Talent management
64%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Hungary
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.1
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 146


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 39% 16%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 36% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
69%
36%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
62%
55%
Flexibility on setting wages
46%
38%
Improvements to public education systems
46%
47%
Wage subsidies
39%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
55%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
45%
37%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
40%
25%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
30%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
46% 39% 15%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
77%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent development of existing workforce
15%
-100%
+100%
54%
Talent retention of existing workforce
31%
-100%
+100%
23%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
46
Global 27
Embed DEI goals and solutions across
the supply chain
39
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
39
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
83
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
58
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
58
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Hungary
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.1
Future of Jobs Report 2025 147


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
63%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
74%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
23%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
1%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
8%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
34%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2021)
12%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
3
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
20%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
96%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
72%
60%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
55%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
53%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
52%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
44%
50%
Slower economic growth
44%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
42%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
41%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
29%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
29%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
29%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
23%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
88%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
60%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
36%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
35%
20%
New materials and composites
33%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
24%
18%
Quantum and encryption
21%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
16%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
13%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
176
82
176
Data Analysts and Scientists
54
41
55
Business Intelligence Analysts
17
18
19
Business Development
Professionals
14
19
16
Assembly and Factory Workers
2
0
28
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-20
-20
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
79%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
63%
AI and big data
62%
Creative thinking
59%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
55%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
94%
Technological literacy
74%
Creative thinking
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
69%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
India
Working Age Population (Millions)
672.8
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 148


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
37
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
48% 29% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 34% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
53%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
53%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
47%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
41%
44%
Changes to immigration laws
34%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
47%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
40%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
32%
25%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
43% 46%
11%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
38%
-100%
+100%
27%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
75%
Talent retention of existing workforce
19%
-100%
+100%
36%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
67
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
60
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
56
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
86
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
72
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
66
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
India
Working Age Population (Millions)
672.8
Future of Jobs Report 2025 149


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
74%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
50%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
21%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
1%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
39%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
12%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
14%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
36%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
94%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
90%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
83%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
67%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
63%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
61%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
57%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
54%
40%
Slower economic growth
50%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
44%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
41%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
39%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
28%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
17%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
83%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
65%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
54%
41%
New materials and composites
52%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
39%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
33%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
24%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
13%
9%
Quantum and encryption
13%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
52
82
52
Big Data Specialists
26
113
28
Business Development
Professionals
15
19
19
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
7
5
7
Assembly and Factory Workers
-9
0
15
Data Entry Clerks
-29
-26
29
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
65%
Analytical thinking
65%
Creative thinking
62%
Talent management
54%
AI and big data
54%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
100%
Creative thinking
77%
Technological literacy
71%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Analytical thinking
64%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Indonesia
Working Age Population (Millions)
167.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 150


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
36
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
30
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
13
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 31% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 35% 33%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
62%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
56%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
47%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
44%
47%
Flexibility on setting wages
41%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
54%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
48%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
48%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
44%
32%
Organization culture and resistance to change
37%
46%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
38% 53%
9%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
41%
-100%
+100%
26%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
74%
Talent retention of existing workforce
24%
-100%
+100%
44%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
62
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
56
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
53
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
94
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
74
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
65
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Indonesia
Working Age Population (Millions)
167.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 151


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
68%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
10%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
80%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
47%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
10%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
87%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
57%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
57%
46%
Broadening digital access
48%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
43%
47%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
38%
40%
Slower economic growth
33%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
33%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
29%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
29%
24%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
29%
50%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
24%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
19%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
81%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
52%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
43%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
43%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
43%
20%
Quantum and encryption
29%
12%
New materials and composites
29%
30%
Satellites and space
technologies
14%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
10%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Sustainability Specialists
24
33
24
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
23
82
23
Business Development
Professionals
20
19
20
Vocational Education Teachers
15
9
15
Data Analysts and Scientists
11
41
15
Supply Chain and Logistics
Specialists
7
17
13
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
82%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
82%
Service orientation and customer service
77%
Empathy and active listening
71%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
71%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
88%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
88%
Technological literacy
86%
AI and big data
80%
Talent management
69%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Ireland
Working Age Population (Millions)
3.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 152


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
33
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
25
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
42% 35% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 38% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Improvements to public education systems
60%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
47%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
47%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
47%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
40%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
76%
63%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
43%
27%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
38%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
33%
46%
Shortage of investment capital
29%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
47% 47%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
43%
-100%
+100%
21%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
62%
Talent retention of existing workforce
38%
-100%
+100%
23%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
73
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
60
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
53
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
86
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
71
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
71
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Ireland
Working Age Population (Millions)
3.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 153


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
69%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
8%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
15%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
85%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
38%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
6
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
20%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
43%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
86%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
96%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
68%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
51%
50%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
46%
17%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
46%
46%
Slower economic growth
42%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
37%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
32%
47%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
29%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
24%
41%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
22%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
20%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
91%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
57%
58%
New materials and composites
29%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
29%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
24%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
17%
20%
Quantum and encryption
12%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
12%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
65
82
65
Data Analysts and Scientists
60
41
68
Business Intelligence Analysts
25
18
30
Business Development
Professionals
22
19
22
Assembly and Factory Workers
-11
0
22
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-20
-20
20
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
80%
Analytical thinking
63%
Systems thinking
63%
AI and big data
60%
Creative thinking
57%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
89%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
79%
Systems thinking
74%
Networks and cybersecurity
72%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Israel
Working Age Population (Millions)
5.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 154


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
44
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
38% 40% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
26% 37% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
71%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
54%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
50%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
32%
36%
Improved transport infrastructure and services
32%
22%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
48%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
41%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
41%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Shortage of investment capital
29%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
47% 47%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
40%
-100%
+100%
17%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
52%
Talent retention of existing workforce
17%
-100%
+100%
38%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
66
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
59
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
48
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
96
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
80
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
80
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Israel
Working Age Population (Millions)
5.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 155


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
53%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
15%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
13%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
10%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
53%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
17%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
18%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
88%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
96%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
70%
47%
Broadening digital access
65%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
58%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
48%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
48%
40%
Slower economic growth
46%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
42%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
42%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
26%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
22%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
19%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
86%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
65%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
49%
41%
New materials and composites
38%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
28%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
22%
18%
Quantum and encryption
18%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
11%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
10%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
37
82
37
Business Development
Professionals
19
19
19
General and Operations
Managers
7
4
9
Business Intelligence Analysts
3
18
16
Assembly and Factory Workers
-5
0
20
Accountants and Auditors
-14
-8
14
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
67%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
67%
Empathy and active listening
63%
Motivation and self-awareness
61%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
54%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
94%
Networks and cybersecurity
85%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Environmental stewardship
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Italy
Working Age Population (Millions)
45.4
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 156


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
39
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 35% 18%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 35% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
65%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
61%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
49%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
47%
36%
Flexibility on setting wages
37%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
59%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
44%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
39%
32%
Organization culture and resistance to change
35%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
34%
27%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
39% 59%
2%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
52%
-100%
+100%
29%
Talent development of existing workforce
2%
-100%
+100%
77%
Talent retention of existing workforce
11%
-100%
+100%
43%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
57
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
53
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
47
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
83
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
75
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
66
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Italy
Working Age Population (Millions)
45.4
Future of Jobs Report 2025 157


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
64%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
8%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2019)
3%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2020)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2020)
85%
Tertiary Education Attainment
-
NA
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
22%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
34%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
96%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
90%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
69%
40%
Broadening digital access
68%
60%
Slower economic growth
64%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
60%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
57%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
49%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
48%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
46%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
25%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
20%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
14%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
94%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
64%
58%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
39%
20%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
35%
41%
New materials and composites
31%
30%
Quantum and encryption
27%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
26%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
21%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
15%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
51
82
51
Business Development
Professionals
20
19
20
General and Operations
Managers
17
4
29
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
13
5
13
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-16
-20
17
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-19
-18
19
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
68%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
66%
Motivation and self-awareness
60%
Creative thinking
60%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
90%
Creative thinking
72%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
65%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Japan
Working Age Population (Millions)
98.4
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 158


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
39
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
13
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
48% 33% 20%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 38% 29%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
58%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
53%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
51%
44%
Flexibility on setting wages
43%
38%
Improvements to public education systems
36%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Organization culture and resistance to change
55%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
49%
37%
Skills gaps in the labour market
41%
63%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
38%
25%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
46% 50%
4%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
47%
-100%
+100%
23%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
80%
Talent retention of existing workforce
18%
-100%
+100%
30%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
65
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
45
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
45
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
88
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
68
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
68
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Japan
Working Age Population (Millions)
98.4
Future of Jobs Report 2025 159


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
-
NA
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
24%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
-
NA
Unemployment rate
(2022)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
-
NA
Secondary Education Attainment (2019)
94%
Tertiary Education Attainment
-
NA
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
69%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
63%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
58%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
49%
50%
Slower economic growth
35%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
31%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
30%
21%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
29%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
29%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
25%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
25%
24%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
21%
41%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
21%
17%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
20%
40%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
65%
86%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
54%
41%
Robots and autonomous systems
44%
58%
New materials and composites
37%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
15%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
11%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
10%
9%
Quantum and encryption
8%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
8%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
39
82
39
Energy Engineers
9
18
10
Accountants and Auditors
6
-8
21
Lawyers
-5
2
11
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-14
-18
15
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-14
-20
15
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
70%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
64%
Creative thinking
64%
Motivation and self-awareness
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
83%
Networks and cybersecurity
74%
Multi-lingualism
64%
Environmental stewardship
59%
Technological literacy
58%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Kazakhstan
Working Age Population (Millions)
N/A
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 160


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
54
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
24
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
13
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
43% 31% 26%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 32% 39%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
54%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
51%
47%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
48%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
46%
38%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
39%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
70%
63%
Shortage of investment capital
40%
26%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
34%
32%
Organization culture and resistance to change
31%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
26%
27%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
55% 37%
8%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
30%
-100%
+100%
23%
Talent development of existing workforce
2%
-100%
+100%
77%
Talent retention of existing workforce
9%
-100%
+100%
58%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
43
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
40
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
39
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
57
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
55
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
49
Global 41
Downsizing workforce where AI can
replicate people’s work
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Kazakhstan
Working Age Population (Millions)
N/A
Future of Jobs Report 2025 161


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
69%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
19%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
-
NA
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
81%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
49%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
17%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
100%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
100%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
71%
60%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
71%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
65%
47%
Slower economic growth
59%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
59%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
53%
23%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
47%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
41%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
35%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
18%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
6%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
88%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
65%
58%
New materials and composites
53%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
53%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
47%
18%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
35%
41%
Quantum and encryption
29%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
24%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
18%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
System Engineers
41
33
41
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
22
82
22
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
10
5
10
Data Engineers
10
36
16
General and Operations
Managers
-12
4
14
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-14
-18
14
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
75%
Creative thinking
75%
Motivation and self-awareness
69%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
63%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
63%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Creative thinking
87%
AI and big data
87%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
63%
Systems thinking
63%
Networks and cybersecurity
63%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Korea, Republic of
Working Age Population (Millions)
40.9
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 162


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
52
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
23
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
14
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
48% 33% 19%
48% 30% 22%
2030
37% 41% 22%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
67%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
58%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
58%
52%
Changes to immigration laws
42%
26%
Flexibility on setting wages
33%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Inability to attract talent to the industry
47%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
47%
32%
Organization culture and resistance to change
41%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
35%
27%
Skills gaps in the labour market
35%
63%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
58% 42%
0%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
50%
-100%
+100%
17%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
73%
Talent retention of existing workforce
27%
-100%
+100%
27%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
75
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
50
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
50
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
100
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
89
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
78
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Korea, Republic of
Working Age Population (Millions)
40.9
Future of Jobs Report 2025 163


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
65%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
9%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
69%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
37%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
13%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
87%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
92%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
63%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
54%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
50%
46%
Broadening digital access
44%
60%
Slower economic growth
41%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
41%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
39%
24%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
30%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
24%
41%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
24%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
9%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
7%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
87%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
59%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
41%
41%
New materials and composites
28%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
11%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
11%
11%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
7%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
4%
9%
Quantum and encryption
2%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
30
82
30
Business Intelligence Analysts
23
18
23
Data Analysts and Scientists
20
41
20
Assembly and Factory Workers
13
0
17
General and Operations
Managers
4
4
6
Accountants and Auditors
-21
-8
23
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
81%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
61%
Service orientation and customer service
59%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
73%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Technological literacy
70%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
69%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Latvia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1.4
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 164


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
30
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
37
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
47% 35% 17%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 40% 30%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
61%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
42%
44%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
42%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
42%
47%
Changes to immigration laws
40%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
76%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
52%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
44%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
41%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
30%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
55% 40%
5%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
71%
-100%
+100%
8%
Talent development of existing workforce
11%
-100%
+100%
53%
Talent retention of existing workforce
32%
-100%
+100%
34%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
53
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
53
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
37
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
74
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
53
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
53
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Latvia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1.4
Future of Jobs Report 2025 165


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
67%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
11%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
14%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
17%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
92%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
41%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2023)
3
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2023)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
14%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
79%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
55%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
51%
40%
Broadening digital access
49%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
47%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
45%
34%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
43%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
40%
24%
Slower economic growth
36%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
28%
41%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
17%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
13%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
9%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
89%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
66%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
34%
41%
New materials and composites
19%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
15%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
11%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
4%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
4%
11%
Quantum and encryption
2%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
57
82
57
Data Analysts and Scientists
35
41
35
Business Development
Professionals
8
19
8
Lawyers
-3
2
4
Client Information and Customer
Service Workers
-11
-2
15
Accountants and Auditors
-15
-8
18
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
89%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
80%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
64%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
64%
Technological literacy
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
95%
Networks and cybersecurity
83%
Technological literacy
79%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
77%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
76%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Lithuania
Working Age Population (Millions)
2.2
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 166


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
36
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
36
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 35% 19%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 36% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
61%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
54%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
54%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
40%
44%
Changes to immigration laws
33%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
83%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
36%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
36%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
61% 37%
2%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
60%
-100%
+100%
21%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
72%
Talent retention of existing workforce
23%
-100%
+100%
35%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
54
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
47
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
44
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
86
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
63
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
58
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Lithuania
Working Age Population (Millions)
2.2
Future of Jobs Report 2025 167


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2022)
77%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
22%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2022)
10%
Unemployment rate
(2022)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2022)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2022)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
70%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
23%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
11%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
41%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
79%
60%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
59%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
48%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
48%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
48%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
45%
23%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
41%
41%
Slower economic growth
38%
42%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
35%
21%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
35%
46%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
31%
17%
Growing working-age
populations
28%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
82%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
71%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
54%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
43%
20%
New materials and composites
29%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
25%
18%
Quantum and encryption
21%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
21%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
18%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
29
82
29
Supply Chain and Logistics
Specialists
12
17
15
Assembly and Factory Workers
11
0
20
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
10
5
10
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-17
-20
17
Data Entry Clerks
-28
-26
28
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
71%
AI and big data
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
63%
Motivation and self-awareness
50%
Technological literacy
50%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
96%
Technological literacy
64%
Networks and cybersecurity
64%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
59%
Talent management
57%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Malaysia
Working Age Population (Millions)
17.2
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 168


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
44
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
25
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
47% 28% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 34% 33%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
70%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
55%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
35%
38%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
35%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
30%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
59%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
45%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
41%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
35%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
35%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
60% 35%
5%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
45%
-100%
+100%
35%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
75%
Talent retention of existing workforce
10%
-100%
+100%
40%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
75
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
55
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
55
Global 26
Support workers with caregiving
responsibilities
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
72
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
67
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
67
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Malaysia
Working Age Population (Millions)
17.2
Future of Jobs Report 2025 169


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
65%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
27%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
16%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
41%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
19%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
2
Jobs and Skills outlook
16%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
94%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
97%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
77%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
59%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
49%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
49%
46%
Slower economic growth
44%
42%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
42%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
41%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
30%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
23%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
15%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
13%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
95%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
63%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
45%
41%
New materials and composites
35%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
29%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
20%
18%
Quantum and encryption
19%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
19%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
12%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Data Analysts and Scientists
47
41
47
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
46
82
46
General and Operations
Managers
2
4
2
Assembly and Factory Workers
-5
0
17
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-20
-18
20
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-25
-20
26
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
83%
Analytical thinking
78%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
65%
Service orientation and customer service
62%
Empathy and active listening
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Creative thinking
77%
Networks and cybersecurity
73%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
70%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Mexico
Working Age Population (Millions)
78.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 170


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
35
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
23
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 31% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 34% 35%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
51%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
49%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
48%
47%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
40%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
39%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
63%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
50%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
40%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
34%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
31%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
45% 45%
9%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
42%
-100%
+100%
38%
Talent development of existing workforce
6%
-100%
+100%
68%
Talent retention of existing workforce
18%
-100%
+100%
53%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
61
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
56
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
52
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
83
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
79
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
75
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Mexico
Working Age Population (Millions)
78.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 171


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
-
NA
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
46%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
-
NA
Unemployment rate
(2022)
9%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2022)
10%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2022)
21%
Secondary Education Attainment -
NA
Tertiary Education Attainment
-
NA
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
27%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
81%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
45%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
45%
41%
Slower economic growth
45%
42%
Broadening digital access
40%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
40%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
30%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
25%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
25%
23%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
20%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
20%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
5%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
90%
86%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
45%
41%
Robots and autonomous systems
40%
58%
New materials and composites
35%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
25%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
20%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
10%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Quantum and encryption
5%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
32
82
32
Digital Marketing and Strategy
Specialists
29
29
37
Assembly and Factory Workers
9
0
13
Accountants and Auditors
1
-8
21
Human Resources Specialists
-8
5
8
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-40
-20
40
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Leadership and social inﬂuence
71%
Resource management and operations
65%
Creative thinking
65%
AI and big data
65%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
53%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
88%
Creative thinking
87%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
75%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Analytical thinking
69%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Morocco
Working Age Population (Millions)
21.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 172


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
53
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
23
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
8
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
51% 24% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
35% 26% 39%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
53%
55%
Wage subsidies
53%
26%
Flexibility on setting wages
41%
38%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
41%
52%
Improved transport infrastructure and services
35%
22%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
62%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
43%
46%
Shortage of investment capital
33%
26%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
24%
25%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
24%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
59% 29% 12%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
19%
-100%
+100%
56%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
75%
Talent retention of existing workforce
19%
-100%
+100%
44%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
56
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
50
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
44
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
69
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
63
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
56
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Morocco
Working Age Population (Millions)
21.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 173


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
66%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
13%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
74%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
39%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
30%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
93%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
64%
60%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
57%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
56%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
51%
34%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
50%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
47%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
42%
46%
Slower economic growth
42%
42%
Growing working-age
populations
28%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
22%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
94%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
66%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
47%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
27%
20%
New materials and composites
23%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
19%
18%
Quantum and encryption
14%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
13%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
6%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
288
82
288
Data Analysts and Scientists
59
41
59
Business Intelligence Analysts
15
18
16
General and Operations
Managers
-2
4
8
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-23
-20
23
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-26
-18
26
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Empathy and active listening
59%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
59%
Motivation and self-awareness
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
92%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Technological literacy
70%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
69%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Netherlands
Working Age Population (Millions)
12.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 174


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
35
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
33
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 32% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 35% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
53%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
48%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
43%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
40%
44%
Changes to immigration laws
38%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
69%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
41%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
39%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
38%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
38%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
45% 53%
2%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
56%
-100%
+100%
15%
Talent development of existing workforce
8%
-100%
+100%
56%
Talent retention of existing workforce
24%
-100%
+100%
27%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
64
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
63
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
54
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
90
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
78
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
75
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Netherlands
Working Age Population (Millions)
12.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 175


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
91%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
84%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
6%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
66%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
8%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
12%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
41%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
100%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
86%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
70%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
55%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
55%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
55%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
50%
47%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
35%
21%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
35%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
25%
24%
Slower economic growth
25%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
20%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
15%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
5%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
90%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
63%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
47%
41%
New materials and composites
32%
30%
Satellites and space
technologies
16%
9%
Quantum and encryption
5%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
5%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
5%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
34
82
34
Data Analysts and Scientists
23
41
23
Sustainability Specialists
23
33
23
Financial Analysts
9
3
24
Lawyers
5
2
11
Accountants and Auditors
1
-8
9
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
75%
Creative thinking
75%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
69%
AI and big data
69%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
63%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Networks and cybersecurity
87%
AI and big data
80%
Systems thinking
67%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
64%
Creative thinking
64%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Nigeria
Working Age Population (Millions)
59.3
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 176


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 29% 28%
48% 30% 22%
2030
28% 39% 33%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
73%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
73%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
60%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
53%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
47%
44%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
50%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
50%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
35%
39%
Shortage of investment capital
35%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
53% 40%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
47%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
73%
Talent retention of existing workforce
7%
-100%
+100%
47%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
53
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
47
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
47
Global 26
Support workers with caregiving
responsibilities
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
93
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
64
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
57
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Nigeria
Working Age Population (Millions)
59.3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 177


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
66%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
4%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
79%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
42%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
-
NA
Jobs and Skills outlook
14%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
96%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
83%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
65%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
61%
41%
Broadening digital access
58%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
45%
50%
Slower economic growth
45%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
45%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
39%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
32%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
26%
17%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
26%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
10%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
10%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
100%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
71%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
45%
41%
New materials and composites
19%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
13%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
10%
18%
Quantum and encryption
7%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Business Development
Professionals
20
19
20
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
18
82
18
Financial Analysts
17
3
17
Business Intelligence Analysts
11
18
11
Assembly and Factory Workers
0
0
14
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-20
-18
20
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Leadership and social inﬂuence
84%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
84%
Analytical thinking
80%
Motivation and self-awareness
64%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
64%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
88%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
84%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
80%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Creative thinking
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Norway
Working Age Population (Millions)
3.9
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 178


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
41
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
28
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
50% 34% 16%
48% 30% 22%
2030
35% 37% 28%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
74%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
52%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
48%
36%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
48%
44%
Changes to pension schemes and retirement ages
30%
25%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
48%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
42%
46%
Shortage of investment capital
36%
26%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
32%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
32%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
26% 52% 22%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
52%
-100%
+100%
9%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
70%
Talent retention of existing workforce
26%
-100%
+100%
35%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
65
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
65
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
48
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
87
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
70
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
61
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Norway
Working Age Population (Millions)
3.9
Future of Jobs Report 2025 179


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2022)
72%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
33%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2022)
13%
Unemployment rate
(2022)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2022)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2022)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
34%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
25%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
16%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
96%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
91%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
79%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
67%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
58%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
46%
46%
Slower economic growth
46%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
46%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
46%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
42%
50%
Growing working-age
populations
33%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
27%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
24%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
24%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
88%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
58%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
58%
41%
New materials and composites
49%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
30%
20%
Quantum and encryption
21%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
21%
11%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
18%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
15%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Data Analysts and Scientists
95
41
95
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
60
82
60
Big Data Specialists
25
113
35
Business Development
Professionals
12
19
16
Assembly and Factory Workers
2
0
20
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-26
-18
26
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Service orientation and customer service
79%
Analytical thinking
79%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
79%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
64%
Motivation and self-awareness
54%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
85%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
77%
Creative thinking
76%
Networks and cybersecurity
73%
Technological literacy
65%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Philippines
Working Age Population (Millions)
56.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 180


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
32
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
28
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
27
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
13
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
43% 32% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
26% 36% 38%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
57%
44%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
52%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
48%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
48%
47%
Changes to immigration laws
44%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
67%
63%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
49%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
39%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
39%
46%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
36%
25%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
48% 39% 13%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
50%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
65%
Talent retention of existing workforce
22%
-100%
+100%
22%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
58
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
58
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
58
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
96
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
73
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
68
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Philippines
Working Age Population (Millions)
56.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 181


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
62%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
16%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
10%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
1%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
67%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
32%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
16%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
31%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
55%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
53%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
52%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
52%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
50%
47%
Slower economic growth
45%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
44%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
40%
41%
Growing working-age
populations
31%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
21%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
15%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
11%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
87%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
64%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
34%
41%
New materials and composites
31%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
28%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
16%
18%
Quantum and encryption
8%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
39
82
39
Big Data Specialists
29
113
29
Data Analysts and Scientists
24
41
24
General and Operations
Managers
0
4
10
Assembly and Factory Workers
-5
0
19
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-14
-20
15
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
77%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
57%
Creative thinking
57%
Motivation and self-awareness
52%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
100%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
70%
Technological literacy
64%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
61%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Poland
Working Age Population (Millions)
26.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 182


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 39% 16%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 39% 29%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
60%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
55%
47%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
52%
55%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
38%
36%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
38%
52%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
42%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
40%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Shortage of investment capital
27%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
38% 52% 10%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
65%
-100%
+100%
16%
Talent development of existing workforce
9%
-100%
+100%
51%
Talent retention of existing workforce
30%
-100%
+100%
30%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
51
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
42
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
37
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
73
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
66
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
56
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Poland
Working Age Population (Millions)
26.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 183


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
63%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
10%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
47%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
24%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
9%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
44%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
87%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
67%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
59%
47%
Broadening digital access
56%
60%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
52%
34%
Slower economic growth
44%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
41%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
41%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
41%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
30%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
22%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
11%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
7%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
89%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
78%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
44%
41%
New materials and composites
37%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
26%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
19%
18%
Quantum and encryption
15%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
4%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
25
82
25
Business Development
Professionals
13
19
13
General and Operations
Managers
7
4
7
Financial Analysts
-8
3
22
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-10
-20
10
Assembly and Factory Workers
-11
0
31
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
83%
Empathy and active listening
72%
Analytical thinking
72%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
72%
Resource management and operations
67%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Curiosity and lifelong learning
88%
AI and big data
83%
Talent management
82%
Technological literacy
81%
Creative thinking
77%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Portugal
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.9
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 184


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
29
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
38
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
23
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 36% 18%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 38% 29%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
60%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
53%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
47%
36%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
47%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
40%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
69%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
65%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
46%
39%
Organization culture and resistance to change
39%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
39%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
0% 53% 47%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
53%
-100%
+100%
13%
Talent development of existing workforce
13%
-100%
+100%
73%
Talent retention of existing workforce
40%
-100%
+100%
40%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
53
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
53
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
53
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
93
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
79
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
79
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Portugal
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.9
Future of Jobs Report 2025 185


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
55%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
22%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
17%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
1%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
73%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
16%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
82%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
91%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
65%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
50%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
48%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
48%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
41%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
37%
23%
Slower economic growth
37%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
35%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
33%
41%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
33%
17%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
85%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
61%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
37%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
35%
20%
New materials and composites
33%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
17%
18%
Quantum and encryption
11%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
2%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
47
82
47
Project Managers
18
17
19
General and Operations
Managers
-7
4
19
Accountants and Auditors
-9
-8
12
Assembly and Factory Workers
-17
0
21
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-18
-18
18
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
83%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
57%
AI and big data
54%
Motivation and self-awareness
51%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
86%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
77%
Creative thinking
74%
Technological literacy
74%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Romania
Working Age Population (Millions)
13.8
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 186


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
14
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 35% 21%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 37% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
62%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
53%
47%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
44%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
41%
36%
Wage subsidies
41%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
76%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
52%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
44%
37%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
28%
27%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
26%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
29% 62%
9%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
59%
-100%
+100%
15%
Talent development of existing workforce
6%
-100%
+100%
59%
Talent retention of existing workforce
18%
-100%
+100%
38%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
47
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
38
Global 27
Embed DEI goals and solutions across
the supply chain
35
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
82
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
67
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
61
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Romania
Working Age Population (Millions)
13.8
Future of Jobs Report 2025 187


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
75%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
2%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
17%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
1%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
5%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
65%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
36%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
16%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
85%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
73%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
65%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
59%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
56%
47%
Broadening digital access
56%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
47%
41%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
44%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
29%
23%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
29%
40%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
27%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
18%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
18%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
84%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
61%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
58%
41%
New materials and composites
23%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
19%
18%
Quantum and encryption
13%
12%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
13%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
3%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
35
82
35
Human Resources Specialists
6
5
6
Industrial and Production
Engineers
6
15
6
Electrotechnology Engineers
4
15
4
Accountants and Auditors
-4
-8
11
Data Entry Clerks
-21
-26
26
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Technological literacy
63%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
60%
Quality control
50%
Analytical thinking
50%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
50%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Technological literacy
75%
AI and big data
70%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Talent management
56%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
54%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Saudi Arabia
Working Age Population (Millions)
N/A
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 188


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
50
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
5
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 21% 35%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 25% 45%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
72%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
52%
52%
Wage subsidies
52%
26%
Flexibility on setting wages
41%
38%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
31%
44%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
79%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
42%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
42%
39%
Organization culture and resistance to change
36%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
30%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
50% 39%
11%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
21%
-100%
+100%
45%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
69%
Talent retention of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
55%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
52
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
44
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
41
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
73
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
58
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
50
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Saudi Arabia
Working Age Population (Millions)
N/A
Future of Jobs Report 2025 189


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
62%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
24%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
6%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
76%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
24%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
18%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
39%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
74%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
83%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
55%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
55%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
52%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
46%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
42%
41%
Growing working-age
populations
39%
24%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
33%
47%
Slower economic growth
33%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
33%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
27%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
18%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
12%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
79%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
52%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
33%
41%
New materials and composites
27%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
21%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
15%
20%
Quantum and encryption
6%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
3%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
3%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
33
82
33
General and Operations
Managers
18
4
23
Supply Chain and Logistics
Specialists
15
17
15
Business Intelligence Analysts
14
18
14
Assembly and Factory Workers
0
0
13
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-22
-20
22
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
65%
Technological literacy
58%
Motivation and self-awareness
54%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
54%
Talent management
54%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
84%
Technological literacy
80%
Talent management
75%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
72%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Serbia
Working Age Population (Millions)
5.0
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 190


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
43
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
30
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
16
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
54% 30% 16%
48% 30% 22%
2030
46% 28% 26%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
67%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
58%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
54%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
50%
36%
Wage subsidies
50%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
67%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
49%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
36%
27%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
36%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
33%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
54% 42%
4%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
42%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
67%
Talent retention of existing workforce
25%
-100%
+100%
50%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
44
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
39
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
35
Global 27
Embed DEI goals and solutions across
the supply chain
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
58
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
58
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
58
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Serbia
Working Age Population (Millions)
5.0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 191


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
73%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
10%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
63%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
53%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
6
Jobs and Skills outlook
28%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
36%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
94%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
97%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
71%
60%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
64%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
58%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
53%
41%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
44%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
38%
23%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
38%
50%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
33%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
29%
24%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
29%
46%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
94%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
57%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
50%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
35%
20%
New materials and composites
33%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
22%
18%
Quantum and encryption
17%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
11%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
128
82
128
Data Analysts and Scientists
27
41
30
Business Intelligence Analysts
8
18
16
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
5
5
8
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-17
-20
18
Data Entry Clerks
-27
-26
27
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
84%
Creative thinking
78%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
70%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
65%
Technological literacy
62%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
97%
Networks and cybersecurity
77%
Technological literacy
76%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
70%
Creative thinking
69%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Singapore
Working Age Population (Millions)
3.1
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 192


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
30
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
24
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
14
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 30% 26%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 33% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
50%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
47%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
44%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
38%
38%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
32%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
60%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
44%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
38%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
33%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
31%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
54% 34%
11%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
26%
-100%
+100%
29%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
77%
Talent retention of existing workforce
17%
-100%
+100%
40%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
71
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
56
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
53
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
82
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
79
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
62
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Singapore
Working Age Population (Millions)
3.1
Future of Jobs Report 2025 193


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
61%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
11%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
86%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
35%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
3
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
12%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
79%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
75%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
68%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
55%
46%
Broadening digital access
48%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
45%
47%
Growing working-age
populations
45%
24%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
45%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
36%
41%
Slower economic growth
29%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
26%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
10%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
10%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
10%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
84%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
61%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
48%
41%
New materials and composites
45%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
13%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
13%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
10%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Quantum and encryption
7%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
59
82
59
Business Development
Professionals
21
19
21
Accountants and Auditors
5
-8
15
Assembly and Factory Workers
-10
0
15
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-16
-18
16
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-18
-20
18
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
58%
Motivation and self-awareness
54%
Technological literacy
54%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
54%
Quality control
50%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
88%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Talent management
65%
Design and user experience
64%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Slovenia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 194


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
48
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
16
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
52% 31% 17%
48% 30% 22%
2030
37% 33% 30%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
71%
44%
Changes to immigration laws
50%
26%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
50%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
50%
47%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
42%
52%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
68%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
58%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
52%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
45%
39%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
32%
27%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
29% 63%
8%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
54%
-100%
+100%
21%
Talent development of existing workforce
8%
-100%
+100%
50%
Talent retention of existing workforce
29%
-100%
+100%
33%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
38
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
38
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
38
Global 26
Support workers with caregiving
responsibilities
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
63
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
63
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
58
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Slovenia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 195


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
63%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
24%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
34%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
29%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
35%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
14%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
44%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
14%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
36%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
36%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
88%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
63%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
57%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
51%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
47%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
45%
41%
Slower economic growth
45%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
45%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
26%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
26%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
18%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
10%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
83%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
60%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
54%
41%
New materials and composites
29%
30%
Quantum and encryption
23%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
19%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
17%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
4%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
4%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
49
82
49
Data Analysts and Scientists
37
41
37
Sustainability Specialists
33
33
33
Business Intelligence Analysts
18
18
18
Accountants and Auditors
-3
-8
10
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-15
-20
15
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
66%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
61%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
61%
AI and big data
55%
Talent management
53%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
82%
Technological literacy
82%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
75%
Networks and cybersecurity
74%
Creative thinking
71%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
South Africa
Working Age Population (Millions)
34.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 196


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
39% 30% 31%
48% 30% 22%
2030
26% 35% 39%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
63%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
63%
47%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
59%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
50%
36%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
41%
44%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
63%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
43%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
31%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
29%
32%
Shortage of investment capital
27%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
55% 36%
9%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
33%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
78%
Talent retention of existing workforce
13%
-100%
+100%
53%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
63
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
56
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
47
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
83
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
76
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
62
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
South Africa
Working Age Population (Millions)
34.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 197


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
62%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
11%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
10%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
11%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
16%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
7%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
55%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
35%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
86%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
64%
47%
Broadening digital access
62%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
53%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
49%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
46%
40%
Slower economic growth
44%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
43%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
36%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
22%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
18%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
88%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
63%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
50%
41%
New materials and composites
30%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
22%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
16%
18%
Quantum and encryption
13%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
12%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
6%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
57
82
57
Data Analysts and Scientists
47
41
47
Business Development
Professionals
18
19
18
General and Operations
Managers
0
4
13
Data Entry Clerks
-16
-26
19
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-24
-20
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
77%
Empathy and active listening
69%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
66%
Analytical thinking
63%
Motivation and self-awareness
63%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
91%
Networks and cybersecurity
77%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
73%
Technological literacy
72%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
70%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Spain
Working Age Population (Millions)
36.4
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 198


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
37
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 33% 20%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 34% 33%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
64%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
60%
44%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
56%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
49%
36%
Flexibility on setting wages
49%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
51%
39%
Organization culture and resistance to change
44%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
42%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
32%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
54% 41%
5%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
49%
-100%
+100%
31%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
72%
Talent retention of existing workforce
20%
-100%
+100%
36%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
55
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
55
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
50
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
79
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
68
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
68
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Spain
Working Age Population (Millions)
36.4
Future of Jobs Report 2025 199


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
69%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
7%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
6%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
18%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
4%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
84%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
44%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
10%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
34%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
91%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
62%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
52%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
52%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
52%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
45%
41%
Growing working-age
populations
41%
24%
Slower economic growth
41%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
38%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
21%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
21%
17%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
17%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
14%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
100%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
66%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
35%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
28%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
21%
18%
New materials and composites
17%
30%
Quantum and encryption
7%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
3%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
67
82
67
Business Intelligence Analysts
6
18
6
Assembly and Factory Workers
-6
0
14
Accountants and Auditors
-12
-8
15
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-24
-18
24
Data Entry Clerks
-27
-26
27
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
83%
Analytical thinking
78%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
70%
Service orientation and customer service
61%
Technological literacy
57%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
87%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
77%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
77%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Creative thinking
61%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Sweden
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.4
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 200


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
49% 37% 14%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 41% 26%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
62%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
48%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
33%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
33%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
29%
44%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
38%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
35%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
35%
32%
Organization culture and resistance to change
31%
46%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
33% 43% 24%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
57%
-100%
+100%
5%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
62%
Talent retention of existing workforce
14%
-100%
+100%
33%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
62
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
57
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
57
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
76
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
62
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
57
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Sweden
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.4
Future of Jobs Report 2025 201


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
68%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
10%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
3%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
84%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
40%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
14%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
41%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
97%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
66%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
59%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
57%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
45%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
45%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
40%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
38%
34%
Slower economic growth
36%
42%
Growing working-age
populations
32%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
21%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
19%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
13%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
96%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
60%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
36%
41%
New materials and composites
32%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
23%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
15%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
13%
9%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
13%
18%
Quantum and encryption
6%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Data Analysts and Scientists
36
41
36
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
31
82
31
Business Intelligence Analysts
13
18
30
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
6
5
6
General and Operations
Managers
0
4
1
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-16
-20
25
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
84%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
67%
Motivation and self-awareness
63%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
63%
Empathy and active listening
56%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
92%
Technological literacy
82%
Networks and cybersecurity
73%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
64%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
60%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Switzerland
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 202


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
47% 35% 18%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 36% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
65%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
57%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
54%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
49%
47%
Changes to immigration laws
46%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
51%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
45%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
34%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
32%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
60% 35%
5%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
58%
-100%
+100%
14%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
58%
Talent retention of existing workforce
36%
-100%
+100%
31%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
65
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
62
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
51
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
84
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
76
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
65
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Switzerland
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 203


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
73%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
50%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
12%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
0%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
0%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
1%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
39%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
17%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
12%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
97%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
89%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
76%
47%
Slower economic growth
73%
42%
Broadening digital access
68%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
68%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
57%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
54%
41%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
54%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
38%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
35%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
32%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
32%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
89%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
76%
58%
New materials and composites
51%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
49%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
27%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
27%
20%
Quantum and encryption
16%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
14%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
11%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
41
82
41
Digital Transformation Specialists
20
35
20
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
5
5
5
Assembly and Factory Workers
-3
0
23
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-17
-20
17
Data Entry Clerks
-23
-26
23
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Creative thinking
74%
Analytical thinking
74%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
71%
AI and big data
55%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Analytical thinking
72%
Creative thinking
71%
Networks and cybersecurity
67%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
65%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Thailand
Working Age Population (Millions)
49.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 204


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
44
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 31% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
33% 34% 33%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
63%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
57%
44%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
57%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
40%
38%
Improvements to public education systems
30%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Inability to attract talent to the industry
62%
37%
Skills gaps in the labour market
62%
63%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
46%
27%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
41%
25%
Organization culture and resistance to change
35%
46%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
57% 37%
7%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
42%
-100%
+100%
29%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
81%
Talent retention of existing workforce
16%
-100%
+100%
52%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
55
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
52
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
48
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
89
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
75
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
64
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Thailand
Working Age Population (Millions)
49.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 205


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
50%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
21%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
23%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
13%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
11%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
21%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
44%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
15%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
20%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
86%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
91%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
60%
50%
Broadening digital access
56%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
52%
41%
Slower economic growth
52%
42%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
32%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
32%
23%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
32%
47%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
32%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
24%
34%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
8%
40%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
78%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
61%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
35%
41%
New materials and composites
30%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
22%
20%
Quantum and encryption
13%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
13%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
4%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Big Data Specialists
27
113
27
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
27
82
27
Robotics Engineers
23
37
23
Accountants and Auditors
0
-8
5
Assembly and Factory Workers
-4
0
36
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-21
-18
21
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Leadership and social inﬂuence
73%
Analytical thinking
68%
Creative thinking
68%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
59%
Empathy and active listening
50%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
86%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
86%
Creative thinking
85%
Networks and cybersecurity
79%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
76%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Tunisia
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.3
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 206


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
47
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
42% 24% 35%
48% 30% 22%
2030
36% 23% 41%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
55%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
50%
44%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
41%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
41%
47%
Wage subsidies
41%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
80%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
44%
39%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
28%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
68% 23%
9%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
32%
-100%
+100%
45%
Talent development of existing workforce
9%
-100%
+100%
73%
Talent retention of existing workforce
27%
-100%
+100%
50%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
57
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
48
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
48
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
71
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
62
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
52
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Tunisia
Working Age Population (Millions)
7.3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 207


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
55%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
25%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
22%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
8%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
41%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
22%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
3
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
3
Jobs and Skills outlook
29%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
44%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
88%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
62%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
61%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
58%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
49%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
49%
46%
Slower economic growth
35%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
33%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
30%
23%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
29%
40%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
23%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
22%
17%
Growing working-age
populations
20%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
79%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
63%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
60%
41%
New materials and composites
40%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
21%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
20%
18%
Quantum and encryption
13%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
8%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
6%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Sustainability Specialists
41
33
41
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
40
82
40
Business Development
Professionals
28
19
29
Business Intelligence Analysts
20
18
21
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
0
5
0
Accountants and Auditors
-4
-8
29
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
74%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
69%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
65%
Motivation and self-awareness
64%
Creative thinking
60%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
92%
Technological literacy
76%
Networks and cybersecurity
74%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Creative thinking
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Türkiye
Working Age Population (Millions)
53.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 208


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
28
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
49% 29% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
36% 29% 35%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Wage subsidies
49%
26%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
48%
36%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
48%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
43%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
39%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
42%
37%
Shortage of investment capital
40%
26%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
38%
27%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
53% 41%
6%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
56%
-100%
+100%
19%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
56%
Talent retention of existing workforce
26%
-100%
+100%
33%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
59
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
54
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
46
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
78
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
70
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
62
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Türkiye
Working Age Population (Millions)
53.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 209


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
84%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
1%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
9%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
2%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
1%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
74%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
54%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
6
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
21%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
41%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
85%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
87%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
76%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
59%
41%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
56%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
42%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
41%
34%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
38%
46%
Slower economic growth
38%
42%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
30%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
27%
21%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
26%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
17%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
12%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
91%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
66%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
48%
41%
New materials and composites
25%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
22%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
20%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
14%
9%
Quantum and encryption
14%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
8%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
47
82
47
Business Intelligence Analysts
22
18
22
Human Resources Specialists
8
5
12
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
0
5
6
Accountants and Auditors
-4
-8
13
Data Entry Clerks
-27
-26
30
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
61%
AI and big data
56%
Technological literacy
56%
Talent management
54%
Creative thinking
53%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
87%
Technological literacy
87%
Networks and cybersecurity
77%
Creative thinking
67%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
66%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
United Arab Emirates
Working Age Population (Millions)
9.4
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 210


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
44
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
28
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
43% 27% 31%
48% 30% 22%
2030
26% 31% 43%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
63%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
55%
52%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
45%
44%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
37%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
37%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
72%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
47%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
42%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
34%
39%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
28%
25%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
33%
8% 59%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
26%
-100%
+100%
40%
Talent development of existing workforce
2%
-100%
+100%
58%
Talent retention of existing workforce
6%
-100%
+100%
44%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
49
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
45
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
40
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
79
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
68
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
55
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
United Arab Emirates
Working Age Population (Millions)
9.4
Future of Jobs Report 2025 211


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
64%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
14%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
13%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
79%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
42%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
23%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
33%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
64%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
57%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
56%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
56%
41%
Slower economic growth
51%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
48%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
47%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
43%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
28%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
23%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
20%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
92%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
62%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
40%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
33%
20%
New materials and composites
32%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
24%
18%
Quantum and encryption
23%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
15%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
10%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Big Data Specialists
319
113
320
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
151
82
151
Data Analysts and Scientists
29
41
29
Business Development
Professionals
14
19
15
General and Operations
Managers
-4
4
9
Data Entry Clerks
-26
-26
26
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
80%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
65%
Creative thinking
62%
Motivation and self-awareness
56%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
92%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Technological literacy
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
69%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
United Kingdom
Working Age Population (Millions)
47.5
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 212


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
35
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 33% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 36% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
55%
52%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
52%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
51%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
46%
47%
Changes to immigration laws
42%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
62%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
46%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
40%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
38%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
30%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
42% 48% 10%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
46%
-100%
+100%
26%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
69%
Talent retention of existing workforce
21%
-100%
+100%
31%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
58
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
58
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
52
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
90
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
74
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
66
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
United Kingdom
Working Age Population (Millions)
47.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 213


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
64%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
4%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
11%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
3%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
5%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
95%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
49%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
5
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
23%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
97%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
68%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
60%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
55%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
52%
34%
Slower economic growth
51%
42%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
49%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
47%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
42%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
29%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
26%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
23%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
20%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
94%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
64%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
41%
41%
New materials and composites
33%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
31%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
23%
18%
Quantum and encryption
19%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
15%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
10%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
142
82
142
Data Analysts and Scientists
40
41
41
Sustainability Specialists
34
33
34
Business Development
Professionals
14
19
15
General and Operations
Managers
-2
4
11
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-19
-20
21
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
66%
Creative thinking
63%
Empathy and active listening
56%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
90%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Technological literacy
69%
Creative thinking
68%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
United States of America
Working Age Population (Millions)
227.6
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 214


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
39
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 33% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 36% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
55%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
55%
55%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
48%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
41%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
35%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
58%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
43%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
41%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
37%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
31%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
41% 48%
11%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
41%
-100%
+100%
27%
Talent development of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
68%
Talent retention of existing workforce
21%
-100%
+100%
35%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
62
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
61
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
55
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
87
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
73
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
68
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
United States of America
Working Age Population (Millions)
227.6
Future of Jobs Report 2025 215


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2020)
62%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
34%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
-
NA
Unemployment rate
(2020)
4%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
-
NA
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2020)
1%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
97%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
62%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
4
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2021)
5
Jobs and Skills outlook
30%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
36%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
60%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
84%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
51%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
51%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
41%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
35%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
32%
21%
Slower economic growth
30%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
27%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
19%
23%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
16%
41%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
14%
47%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
14%
40%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
5%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
69%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
47%
58%
New materials and composites
36%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
33%
41%
Quantum and encryption
19%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
17%
11%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
11%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
11%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
3%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Business Intelligence Analysts
21
18
21
University and Higher Education
Teachers
21
16
23
Lawyers
11
2
13
Accountants and Auditors
6
-8
27
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-13
-18
21
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-27
-20
27
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
65%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
65%
Systems thinking
62%
Motivation and self-awareness
59%
Talent management
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Networks and cybersecurity
76%
AI and big data
75%
Programming
64%
Multi-lingualism
63%
Technological literacy
63%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Uzbekistan
Working Age Population (Millions)
19.8
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 216


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
52
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
22
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
14
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
43% 30% 26%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 33% 38%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
57%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
57%
47%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
50%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
37%
38%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
33%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
78%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
30%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
30%
39%
Shortage of investment capital
30%
26%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
27%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
68% 29%
3%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
37%
-100%
+100%
43%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
84%
Talent retention of existing workforce
3%
-100%
+100%
71%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
47
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
33
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
27
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
65
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
58
Global 41
Downsizing workforce where AI can
replicate people’s work
52
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Uzbekistan
Working Age Population (Millions)
19.8
Future of Jobs Report 2025 217


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
79%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
52%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
11%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
1%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
1%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
2%
Secondary Education Attainment (2023)
39%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2023)
15%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
16%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
87%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
96%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Broadening digital access
69%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
66%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
59%
50%
Slower economic growth
48%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
48%
40%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
45%
23%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
41%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
41%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
28%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
17%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
10%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
76%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
72%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
59%
41%
New materials and composites
52%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
24%
20%
Quantum and encryption
10%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
7%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
3%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
36
82
36
E-commerce Specialists
26
20
26
Business Development
Professionals
24
19
24
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
8
5
8
General and Operations
Managers
5
4
5
Assembly and Factory Workers
-7
0
20
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
79%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
75%
Creative thinking
71%
Resource management and operations
63%
AI and big data
63%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
96%
Networks and cybersecurity
70%
Talent management
68%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Creative thinking
68%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Viet Nam
Working Age Population (Millions)
63.9
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 218


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
41
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
14
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
40% 34% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
25% 37% 38%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
59%
44%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
59%
55%
Changes to immigration laws
50%
26%
Changes to pension schemes and retirement ages
46%
25%
Wage subsidies
41%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
62%
63%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
55%
32%
Organization culture and resistance to change
41%
46%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
41%
25%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
41%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
59% 36%
5%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
39%
-100%
+100%
30%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
77%
Talent retention of existing workforce
18%
-100%
+100%
36%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
61
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
61
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
57
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
82
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
68
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
68
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Viet Nam
Working Age Population (Millions)
63.9
Future of Jobs Report 2025 219


Contextual indicators
Regional average
Income Group average
Labour force participation
(2023)
76%
Vulnerable employment
(2022)
61%
Share of youth not in
employment, education, or
training (NEET)
(2023)
30%
Unemployment rate
(2023)
8%
Unemployment rate among
workers with basic edu.
(2023)
7%
Unemployment rate among
workers with advanced edu.
(2023)
5%
Secondary Education Attainment (2022)
66%
Tertiary Education Attainment
(2022)
17%
Ease of ﬁnding skilled employees
in local labour market
(2024)
5
Fill vacancies by hiring foreign
labour
(2024)
4
Country investment in mid-career
training
(2022)
4
Jobs and Skills outlook
16%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
47%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
100%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
91%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Economy
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
78%
50%
Broadening digital access
61%
60%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
56%
46%
Slower economic growth
56%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
44%
41%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
39%
47%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
28%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
22%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
22%
24%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
17%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
11%
34%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Economy
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
72%
86%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
67%
41%
Robots and autonomous systems
50%
58%
Satellites and space
technologies
28%
9%
New materials and composites
17%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
17%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
11%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
11%
11%
Quantum and encryption
6%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Sustainability Specialists
22
33
22
Environmental Protection
Professionals
18
28
18
Business Services and
Administration Managers
9
-7
29
Assembly and Factory Workers
2
0
10
Accountants and Auditors
-8
-8
12
General and Operations
Managers
-9
4
9
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Economy
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Motivation and self-awareness
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
67%
Service orientation and customer service
58%
Analytical thinking
58%
Creative thinking
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
82%
Systems thinking
82%
Creative thinking
80%
AI and big data
80%
Technological literacy
78%
1 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Zimbabwe
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.3
INDICATORS
min
max
INDICATORS
min
max
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 220


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
51
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
23
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
16
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
54% 25% 20%
48% 30% 22%
2030
30% 29% 42%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Improvements to public education systems
70%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
60%
36%
Flexibility on setting wages
50%
38%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
50%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
50%
52%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Economy
Global
ECONOMY
GLOBAL
Organization culture and resistance to change
50%
46%
Shortage of investment capital
50%
26%
Skills gaps in the labour market
44%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
44%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
39%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
40% 50% 10%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
50%
-100%
+100%
40%
Talent development of existing workforce
10%
-100%
+100%
90%
Talent retention of existing workforce
10%
-100%
+100%
50%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
70
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
60
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
40
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
82
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
55
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
55
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Economy Proﬁle
Zimbabwe
Working Age Population (Millions)
6.3
Future of Jobs Report 2025 221


23%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
64%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
63%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Broadening digital access
61%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
52%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
37%
46%
Slower economic growth
32%
42%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
30%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
27%
24%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
27%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
23%
47%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
19%
23%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
19%
41%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
15%
40%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
14%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
69%
86%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
50%
41%
Robots and autonomous systems
45%
58%
New materials and composites
36%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
14%
20%
Quantum and encryption
10%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
10%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
9%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
8%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
49
82
49
University and Higher Education
Teachers
24
16
26
Accountants and Auditors
3
-8
15
Lawyers
-4
2
12
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-12
-18
13
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-18
-20
18
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
75%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
70%
Creative thinking
68%
Motivation and self-awareness
62%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
62%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
81%
Networks and cybersecurity
70%
Multi-lingualism
63%
Creative thinking
59%
Talent management
59%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Central Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
33.1
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 222


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
53
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
23
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
13
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 31% 25%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 32% 39%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Improvements to public education systems
61%
47%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
55%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
52%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
38%
38%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
36%
44%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
75%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
35%
46%
Shortage of investment capital
35%
26%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
29%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
28%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
66% 31%
3%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
27%
-100%
+100%
30%
Talent development of existing workforce
2%
-100%
+100%
80%
Talent retention of existing workforce
6%
-100%
+100%
66%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
42
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
38
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
31
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
62
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
54
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
48
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Central Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
33.1
Future of Jobs Report 2025 223


28%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
32%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
93%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
86%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
84%
40%
Broadening digital access
66%
60%
Slower economic growth
66%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
61%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
58%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
52%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
48%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
47%
41%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
28%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
20%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
9%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
92%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
61%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
39%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
39%
20%
New materials and composites
34%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
31%
18%
Quantum and encryption
27%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
27%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
19%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
49
82
49
General and Operations
Managers
31
4
43
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
19
5
19
Assembly and Factory Workers
-4
0
20
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-18
-20
18
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-19
-18
19
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
71%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
66%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
64%
Creative thinking
64%
Motivation and self-awareness
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
87%
Creative thinking
73%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
66%
Networks and cybersecurity
64%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
61%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Eastern Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1167.5
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 224


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
41
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
25
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
15
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
51% 31% 18%
48% 30% 22%
2030
35% 38% 27%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
60%
52%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
55%
44%
Flexibility on setting wages
49%
38%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
43%
55%
Changes to pension schemes and retirement ages
36%
25%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Organization culture and resistance to change
64%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
53%
37%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
44%
25%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
41%
27%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
39%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
55% 43%
2%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
51%
-100%
+100%
28%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
83%
Talent retention of existing workforce
23%
-100%
+100%
30%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
60
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
38
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
36
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
82
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
70
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
68
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Eastern Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
1167.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 225


21%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
36%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
84%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
90%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Broadening digital access
57%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
51%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
51%
47%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
49%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
47%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
44%
41%
Slower economic growth
37%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
36%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
27%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
23%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
19%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
16%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
87%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
62%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
44%
41%
New materials and composites
30%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
17%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
15%
18%
Quantum and encryption
9%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
9%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
109
82
109
Data Analysts and Scientists
33
41
33
Business Intelligence Analysts
16
18
21
General and Operations
Managers
3
4
9
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-17
-20
19
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-19
-18
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
63%
Motivation and self-awareness
59%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
91%
Networks and cybersecurity
75%
Technological literacy
73%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
72%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Europe
Working Age Population (Millions)
597.0
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 226


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
38
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
48% 32% 20%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 34% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
57%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
47%
52%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
46%
44%
Improvements to public education systems
44%
47%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
39%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
46%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
41%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
39%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
32%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
49% 45%
6%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
54%
-100%
+100%
21%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
63%
Talent retention of existing workforce
22%
-100%
+100%
36%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
52
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
46
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
44
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
79
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
70
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
65
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Europe
Working Age Population (Millions)
597.0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 227


23%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
42%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
89%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Broadening digital access
70%
60%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
57%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
50%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
43%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
43%
50%
Slower economic growth
42%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
33%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
23%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
19%
23%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
16%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
14%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
14%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
93%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
63%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
38%
41%
New materials and composites
34%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
28%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
20%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
15%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
13%
9%
Quantum and encryption
13%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Data Analysts and Scientists
51
41
51
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
50
82
50
Business Intelligence Analysts
31
18
34
Sustainability Specialists
29
33
29
Lawyers
-10
2
15
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-26
-20
26
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
81%
Analytical thinking
74%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
69%
Systems thinking
67%
Empathy and active listening
67%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
92%
Creative thinking
84%
Technological literacy
81%
Empathy and active listening
70%
Design and user experience
70%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Latin America and the Caribbean
Working Age Population (Millions)
377.5
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 228


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
41
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
51% 28% 21%
48% 30% 22%
2030
37% 29% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
57%
44%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
51%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
50%
47%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
47%
55%
Flexibility on setting wages
44%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
53%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
49%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
48%
39%
Shortage of investment capital
28%
26%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
28%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
44% 48%
9%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
37%
-100%
+100%
37%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
80%
Talent retention of existing workforce
20%
-100%
+100%
57%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
66
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
59
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
54
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
79
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
74
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
72
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Latin America and the Caribbean
Working Age Population (Millions)
377.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 229


19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
46%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
72%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
85%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
54%
50%
Broadening digital access
53%
60%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
35%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
35%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
33%
41%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
31%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
29%
23%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
28%
46%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
24%
17%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
18%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
13%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
79%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
44%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
31%
41%
New materials and composites
25%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
20%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
14%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
8%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Quantum and encryption
6%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
65
82
65
Business Development
Professionals
26
19
26
Business Intelligence Analysts
19
18
23
Assembly and Factory Workers
8
0
26
Accountants and Auditors
-3
-8
9
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-33
-20
42
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Creative thinking
57%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
50%
Analytical thinking
47%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
46%
AI and big data
46%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
74%
Networks and cybersecurity
72%
Technological literacy
67%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
66%
Creative thinking
64%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Middle East and Northern Africa
Working Age Population (Millions)
197.7
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 230


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
51
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
15
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
42% 26% 32%
48% 30% 22%
2030
29% 28% 43%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
58%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
53%
52%
Improvements to public education systems
53%
47%
Flexibility on setting wages
41%
38%
Wage subsidies
41%
26%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
63%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
42%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
39%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
34%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
28%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
63% 27% 10%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
23%
-100%
+100%
46%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
69%
Talent retention of existing workforce
14%
-100%
+100%
58%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
36
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
35
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
34
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
73
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
62
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
51
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Middle East and Northern Africa
Working Age Population (Millions)
197.7
Future of Jobs Report 2025 231


21%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
96%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Broadening digital access
67%
60%
Slower economic growth
52%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
48%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
48%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
45%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
45%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
45%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
44%
47%
Growing working-age
populations
35%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
28%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
25%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
22%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
96%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
61%
58%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
36%
20%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
33%
41%
Quantum and encryption
28%
12%
New materials and composites
22%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
16%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
9%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
9%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
91
82
91
Big Data Specialists
33
113
35
Data Analysts and Scientists
22
41
23
Business Development
Professionals
12
19
15
General and Operations
Managers
-4
4
14
Accountants and Auditors
-7
-8
11
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
79%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
79%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
68%
Empathy and active listening
66%
Technological literacy
64%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
90%
Technological literacy
80%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
67%
Creative thinking
65%
Networks and cybersecurity
65%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Northern America
Working Age Population (Millions)
255.5
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 232


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
33
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
24
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 34% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 38% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
56%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
56%
52%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
46%
44%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
40%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
40%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
67%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
48%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
42%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
35%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
33%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
35% 52% 14%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
43%
-100%
+100%
22%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
69%
Talent retention of existing workforce
22%
-100%
+100%
29%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
79
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
67
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
64
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
84
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
82
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
66
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Northern America
Working Age Population (Millions)
255.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 233


20%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
43%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
86%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
96%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
72%
47%
Broadening digital access
72%
60%
Slower economic growth
69%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
55%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
52%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
38%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
35%
24%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
31%
34%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
28%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
24%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
21%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
14%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
90%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
72%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
45%
41%
New materials and composites
38%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
21%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
14%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
10%
9%
Quantum and encryption
10%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
3%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
38
82
38
Data Analysts and Scientists
27
41
27
Business Development
Professionals
19
19
19
Lawyers
6
2
12
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
3
5
3
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-23
-18
23
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
67%
Technological literacy
67%
Analytical thinking
67%
Creative thinking
63%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
96%
Networks and cybersecurity
92%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
83%
Technological literacy
78%
Analytical thinking
78%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
South-eastern Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
400.5
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 234


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
38
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
25
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
41% 32% 27%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 33% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
59%
44%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
59%
52%
Flexibility on setting wages
50%
38%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
50%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
50%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
69%
63%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
59%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
52%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
41%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
41%
46%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
59% 27% 14%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
27%
-100%
+100%
45%
Talent development of existing workforce
32%
-100%
+100%
68%
Talent retention of existing workforce
14%
-100%
+100%
55%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
59
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
46
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
46
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
91
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
77
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
59
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
South-eastern Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
400.5
Future of Jobs Report 2025 235


28%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
52%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
86%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
92%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Broadening digital access
63%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
45%
47%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
45%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
40%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
37%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
34%
50%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
24%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
18%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
18%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
16%
23%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
11%
40%
Slower economic growth
8%
42%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
79%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
53%
58%
New materials and composites
34%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
29%
18%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
26%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
24%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
18%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
18%
11%
Quantum and encryption
11%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Supply Chain and Logistics
Specialists
30
17
30
Assembly and Factory Workers
23
0
39
Business Development
Professionals
15
19
15
Vocational Education Teachers
14
9
14
Project Managers
8
17
8
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-25
-18
27
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
71%
Creative thinking
55%
AI and big data
55%
Talent management
52%
Technological literacy
52%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
93%
Technological literacy
70%
Creative thinking
70%
Quality control
69%
Analytical thinking
65%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Southern Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
873.8
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 236


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
44
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
24
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
55% 19% 26%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 23% 43%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
57%
52%
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
54%
55%
Improvements to public education systems
54%
47%
Flexibility on hiring and ﬁring practices
32%
44%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
29%
36%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
71%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
45%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
34%
39%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
32%
25%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
29%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
64% 29%
7%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
29%
-100%
+100%
39%
Talent development of existing workforce
7%
-100%
+100%
74%
Talent retention of existing workforce
22%
-100%
+100%
48%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
61
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
57
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
54
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
73
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
62
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
58
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Southern Asia
Working Age Population (Millions)
873.8
Future of Jobs Report 2025 237


31%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
96%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
89%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Region
Global
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
64%
46%
Broadening digital access
59%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
59%
50%
Slower economic growth
49%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
33%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
33%
41%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy
26%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
23%
23%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
21%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
15%
24%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
13%
40%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
3%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Region
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
85%
86%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
49%
41%
Robots and autonomous systems
39%
58%
New materials and composites
18%
30%
Satellites and space
technologies
15%
9%
Quantum and encryption
13%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
8%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
8%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
8%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
33
82
33
Assembly and Factory Workers
2
0
10
Accountants and Auditors
-3
-8
9
General and Operations
Managers
-9
4
13
Business Services and
Administration Managers
-11
-7
27
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-20
-20
28
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Region
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
64%
Technological literacy
64%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
61%
Analytical thinking
61%
Motivation and self-awareness
58%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
89%
Technological literacy
88%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
83%
Networks and cybersecurity
79%
Creative thinking
76%
1 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Sub-Saharan Africa
Working Age Population (Millions)
341.2
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 238


Upskilling and reskilling outlook
46
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
25
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
51% 34% 15%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 40% 28%
33% 33% 34%
Public policy
Public policies to improve talent availability
Share of respondents who agree that the particular public policy has the greatest potential to increase
the talent availability
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Funding for reskilling and upskilling
68%
55%
Provision of reskilling and upskilling
64%
52%
Changes to labour laws related to remote work
54%
36%
Improvements to public education systems
50%
47%
Flexibility on setting wages
36%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Region
Global
REGION
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
51%
63%
Shortage of investment capital
51%
26%
Organization culture and resistance to change
46%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
39%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
33%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
55% 35% 10%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
33%
-100%
+100%
48%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
79%
Talent retention of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
46%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
71
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
57
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
39
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
89
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
61
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
61
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Region Proﬁle
Sub-Saharan Africa
Working Age Population (Millions)
341.2
Future of Jobs Report 2025 239


24%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
42%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
80%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
77%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
64%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
54%
46%
Broadening digital access
51%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
43%
47%
Slower economic growth
43%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
43%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
30%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
22%
41%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
13%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
11%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
8%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
80%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
53%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
38%
41%
New materials and composites
20%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
17%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
13%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Quantum and encryption
7%
12%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
7%
20%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
64
82
64
General and Operations
Managers
41
4
43
Hotel and Restaurant Managers
18
19
20
Food and Beverage Serving
Workers
12
6
16
Chefs and Cooks
11
15
13
Accountants and Auditors
2
-8
11
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
53%
Analytical thinking
51%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
49%
Creative thinking
47%
Dependability and attention to detail
45%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
69%
Networks and cybersecurity
69%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
63%
Technological literacy
60%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
55%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
81%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
69%
70%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
64%
63%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
38
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Accommodation, Food, and Leisure
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 240


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
55% 21% 24%
48% 30% 22%
2030
43% 23% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
69%
64%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
58%
62%
Offering higher wages
58%
50%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
51%
63%
Improving working hours and overtime policies
49%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
55%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
47%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
33%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
28%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
56% 38%
7%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
59%
-100%
+100%
20%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
68%
Talent retention of existing workforce
23%
-100%
+100%
50%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
52
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
48
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
46
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
67
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
56
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
51
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Accommodation, Food, and Leisure
Future of Jobs Report 2025 241


50%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
78%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
86%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
60%
47%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
53%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
49%
41%
Broadening digital access
48%
60%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
47%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
45%
34%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
44%
46%
Slower economic growth
34%
42%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
33%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
33%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
18%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
81%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
69%
58%
New materials and composites
63%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
49%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
30%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
26%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
22%
11%
Quantum and encryption
8%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
82
82
82
Sustainability Specialists
30
33
30
Industrial and Production
Engineers
19
15
28
Assembly and Factory Workers
11
0
25
General and Operations
Managers
1
4
9
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-24
-20
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Analytical thinking
71%
Motivation and self-awareness
64%
Creative thinking
55%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
53%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
86%
Creative thinking
76%
Networks and cybersecurity
75%
Technological literacy
73%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
83%
85%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
71%
63%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
67%
73%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
46
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
15
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Advanced Manufactoring
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 242


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
43% 29% 28%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 35% 35%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
67%
63%
Supporting employee health and well-being
62%
64%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
60%
62%
Offering higher wages
56%
50%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
50%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
69%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
40%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
34%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
32%
27%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
30%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
56% 38%
6%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
42%
-100%
+100%
37%
Talent development of existing workforce
2%
-100%
+100%
77%
Talent retention of existing workforce
21%
-100%
+100%
54%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
57
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
49
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
47
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
80
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
72
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
58
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Advanced Manufactoring
Future of Jobs Report 2025 243


24%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
41%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
67%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
83%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
57%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
57%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
57%
50%
Broadening digital access
46%
60%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
43%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
43%
40%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
41%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
30%
21%
Slower economic growth
30%
42%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
22%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
19%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
84%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
60%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
57%
41%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
41%
11%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
32%
18%
New materials and composites
30%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
19%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
14%
9%
Quantum and encryption
8%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
42
82
42
Farmworkers, Labourers, and
Other Agricultural Workers
20
17
31
General and Operations
Managers
13
4
13
Assembly and Factory Workers
10
0
20
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-14
-18
26
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-19
-20
30
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Systems thinking
63%
Analytical thinking
59%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
56%
Creative thinking
56%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
56%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
83%
Environmental stewardship
71%
Technological literacy
71%
AI and big data
70%
Creative thinking
65%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
88%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
71%
70%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
67%
63%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
54
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
21
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
16
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Agriculture Forestry and Fishing
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 244


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
51% 27% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
35% 28% 38%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
67%
62%
Supporting employee health and well-being
63%
64%
Offering higher wages
58%
50%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
58%
63%
Articulate business purpose and impact
42%
37%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
68%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
51%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
46%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
43%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
38%
46%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
63% 29%
8%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
38%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
63%
Talent retention of existing workforce
13%
-100%
+100%
54%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
42
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
38
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
33
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
61
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
61
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
57
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Agriculture Forestry and Fishing
Future of Jobs Report 2025 245


17%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
87%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
83%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
71%
47%
Broadening digital access
63%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
56%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
54%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
50%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
48%
46%
Slower economic growth
48%
42%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
46%
23%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
31%
40%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
29%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
27%
17%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
92%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
73%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
60%
41%
New materials and composites
52%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
40%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
38%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
25%
9%
Quantum and encryption
17%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
6%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Robotics Engineers
65
37
65
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
35
82
35
Business Intelligence Analysts
20
18
25
Human Resources Specialists
3
5
7
Assembly and Factory Workers
2
0
24
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-23
-18
23
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
72%
Creative thinking
69%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
67%
Motivation and self-awareness
62%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
100%
Technological literacy
84%
Networks and cybersecurity
78%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
71%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
71%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
95%
85%
Transition existing staff from declining to growing roles
74%
51%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
74%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
43
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Automotive and Aerospace
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 246


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
46% 32% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 33% 36%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
73%
63%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
70%
62%
Supporting employee health and well-being
65%
64%
Improving working hours and overtime policies
60%
38%
Articulate business purpose and impact
51%
37%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
69%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
52%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
42%
27%
Shortage of investment capital
40%
26%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
38%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
47% 42%
11%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
27%
-100%
+100%
5%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent retention of existing workforce
16%
-100%
+100%
46%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
65
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
54
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
46
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
86
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
74
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
71
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Automotive and Aerospace
Future of Jobs Report 2025 247


19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
42%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
91%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
83%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
65%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
65%
41%
Broadening digital access
50%
60%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
44%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
41%
23%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
38%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
35%
46%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
29%
21%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
29%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
18%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
15%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
New materials and composites
76%
30%
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
73%
86%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
64%
41%
Robots and autonomous systems
49%
58%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
18%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
18%
11%
Quantum and encryption
12%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
12%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
3%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
52
82
52
Business Development
Professionals
23
19
23
Strategic Advisors
20
20
27
Chemical Processing Plant
Operators
11
9
15
Lawyers
-1
2
10
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-22
-20
22
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
66%
Creative thinking
62%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
59%
Motivation and self-awareness
52%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
48%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
86%
Environmental stewardship
75%
Talent management
67%
Networks and cybersecurity
65%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
63%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
73%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
68%
70%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
68%
63%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
48
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
8
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Chemical and Advanced materials
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 248


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
38% 37% 26%
48% 30% 22%
2030
28% 35% 37%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
75%
62%
Supporting employee health and well-being
63%
64%
Offering higher wages
50%
50%
Articulate business purpose and impact
46%
37%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
46%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
56%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
50%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
44%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
44%
39%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
41%
27%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
46% 50%
4%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
33%
-100%
+100%
25%
Talent development of existing workforce
4%
-100%
+100%
75%
Talent retention of existing workforce
17%
-100%
+100%
54%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
48
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
48
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
44
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
65
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
65
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
48
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Chemical and Advanced materials
Future of Jobs Report 2025 249


22%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
44%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
91%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
75%
60%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
54%
46%
Slower economic growth
45%
42%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
41%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
36%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
30%
41%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
29%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
27%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
20%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
18%
17%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
16%
47%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
11%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
91%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
55%
58%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
23%
20%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
20%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
16%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
11%
9%
New materials and composites
11%
30%
Quantum and encryption
9%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
42
82
42
Sustainability Specialists
34
33
34
University and Higher Education
Teachers
19
16
24
Vocational Education Teachers
13
9
21
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-8
-20
21
Data Entry Clerks
-30
-26
33
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
70%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
66%
Creative thinking
64%
AI and big data
56%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
54%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
85%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
79%
Creative thinking
79%
Technological literacy
76%
Analytical thinking
70%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
73%
85%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
68%
73%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
61%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
26
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
13
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Education and Training
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 250


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
57% 25% 19%
48% 30% 22%
2030
39% 29% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
61%
62%
Offering higher wages
61%
50%
Supporting employee health and well-being
55%
64%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
50%
47%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
43%
63%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
57%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
48%
46%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
32%
27%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
32%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
30%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
57% 41%
2%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
30%
-100%
+100%
42%
Talent development of existing workforce
5%
-100%
+100%
74%
Talent retention of existing workforce
20%
-100%
+100%
49%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
55
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
41
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
41
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
81
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
71
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
60
Global 49
Re-orienting your organization to target
new business opportunities created by
AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Education and Training
Future of Jobs Report 2025 251


17%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
33%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
87%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
64%
47%
Broadening digital access
57%
60%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
50%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
46%
50%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
43%
34%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
39%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
32%
23%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
29%
41%
Slower economic growth
25%
42%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
18%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
18%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
93%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
69%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
59%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
55%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
38%
18%
New materials and composites
28%
30%
Quantum and encryption
21%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
10%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
81
82
81
Robotics Engineers
27
37
27
Electrotechnology Engineers
21
15
21
Business Development
Professionals
18
19
18
Industrial and Production
Engineers
1
15
16
Assembly and Factory Workers
0
0
19
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
80%
Creative thinking
76%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Motivation and self-awareness
60%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
60%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
83%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
64%
Creative thinking
56%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
87%
73%
Upskill your workforce
78%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
70%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
38
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
33
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Electronics
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 252


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
40% 40% 21%
48% 30% 22%
2030
25% 39% 35%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
61%
64%
Articulate business purpose and impact
57%
37%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
57%
63%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
52%
62%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
52%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
64%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
43%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
43%
39%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
36%
27%
Shortage of investment capital
32%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
35% 56%
9%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
61%
-100%
+100%
13%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
74%
Talent retention of existing workforce
9%
-100%
+100%
44%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
48
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
44
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
39
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
81
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
67
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
52
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Electronics
Future of Jobs Report 2025 253


19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
81%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
72%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
55%
47%
Broadening digital access
55%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
53%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
35%
34%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
33%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
31%
46%
Slower economic growth
29%
42%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
28%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
28%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
26%
24%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
26%
40%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
88%
41%
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
64%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
48%
58%
New materials and composites
36%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
19%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
14%
18%
Quantum and encryption
7%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
3%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
2%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
46
82
46
Renewable Energy Engineers
46
38
46
Sustainability Specialists
32
33
32
Energy Engineers
20
18
21
Project Managers
12
17
14
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-15
-18
15
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
80%
Creative thinking
74%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
67%
Technological literacy
61%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
57%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
91%
Networks and cybersecurity
79%
Technological literacy
67%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
67%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
62%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
90%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
77%
70%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
69%
63%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
39
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
32
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Energy Technology and Utilities
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 254


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
43% 34% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 38% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
79%
62%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
77%
63%
Supporting employee health and well-being
62%
64%
Articulate business purpose and impact
51%
37%
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
51%
43%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
81%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
44%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
37%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
37%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
30%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
50% 38% 12%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
37%
-100%
+100%
2%
Talent development of existing workforce
26%
-100%
+100%
21%
Talent retention of existing workforce
43%
-100%
+100%
39%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
62
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
60
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
55
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
74
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
74
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
61
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Energy Technology and Utilities
Future of Jobs Report 2025 255


30%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
41%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
88%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
97%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
79%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
53%
41%
Slower economic growth
50%
42%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
47%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
37%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
36%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
35%
47%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
33%
46%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
28%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
23%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
23%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
19%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
95%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
53%
58%
Quantum and encryption
26%
12%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
18%
20%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
16%
41%
New materials and composites
9%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
6%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
5%
9%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
3%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
228
82
228
Data Analysts and Scientists
40
41
40
Business Intelligence Analysts
18
18
20
Financial and Investment
Advisers
12
11
15
Human Resources Specialists
3
5
13
Accountants and Auditors
-11
-8
14
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
80%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
66%
Creative thinking
65%
Technological literacy
65%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
95%
Technological literacy
84%
Networks and cybersecurity
82%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Creative thinking
67%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
87%
85%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
82%
73%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
73%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
25
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
21
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Financial services and Capital markets
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 256


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
44% 35% 21%
48% 30% 22%
2030
28% 35% 38%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
71%
63%
Supporting employee health and well-being
65%
64%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
61%
62%
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
58%
43%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
57%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
52%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
44%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
38%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
34%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
46% 45%
8%
41%
8%
0%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
28%
-100%
+100%
1%
Talent development of existing workforce
23%
-100%
+100%
15%
Talent retention of existing workforce
37%
-100%
+100%
37%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
58
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
57
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
47
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
80
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
74
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
69
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Financial services and Capital markets
Future of Jobs Report 2025 257


23%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
75%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
76%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
60%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
56%
41%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
54%
47%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
49%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
49%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
39%
50%
Slower economic growth
32%
42%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
30%
21%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
30%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
28%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
26%
23%
0
0%
0%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
90%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
58%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
44%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
28%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
25%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
21%
9%
New materials and composites
19%
30%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
11%
11%
Quantum and encryption
5%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
179
82
179
Supply Chain and Logistics
Specialists
21
17
22
Civil Engineers
16
13
19
Water Transportation Workers,
including Ship and Marine Car…
16
16
26
General and Operations
Managers
5
4
20
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-13
-20
19
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Leadership and social inﬂuence
66%
Analytical thinking
61%
Resource management and operations
59%
Service orientation and customer service
57%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
57%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
90%
Networks and cybersecurity
78%
Technological literacy
70%
Environmental stewardship
61%
Creative thinking
55%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
83%
85%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
78%
63%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
73%
73%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
37
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
33
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Government and Public sector
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 258


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
53% 30% 17%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 39% 27%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
80%
62%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
80%
63%
Supporting employee health and well-being
65%
64%
Offering higher wages
48%
50%
Improving working hours and overtime policies
40%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Organization culture and resistance to change
68%
46%
Skills gaps in the labour market
52%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
52%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
41%
32%
Shortage of investment capital
36%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
52% 38% 10%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
23%
-100%
+100%
3%
Talent development of existing workforce
33%
-100%
+100%
20%
Talent retention of existing workforce
48%
-100%
+100%
25%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
50
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
48
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
43
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
84
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
76
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
63
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Government and Public sector
Future of Jobs Report 2025 259


34%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
32%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
89%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
93%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
74%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
45%
50%
Slower economic growth
45%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
43%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
37%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
36%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
35%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
31%
41%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
26%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
22%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
21%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
20%
24%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
99%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
48%
58%
Quantum and encryption
41%
12%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
36%
20%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
28%
41%
Satellites and space
technologies
20%
9%
New materials and composites
12%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
12%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
9%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Software and Applications
Developers
132
57
138
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
98
82
98
Data Analysts and Scientists
42
41
46
Data Engineers
32
36
32
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-27
-18
27
Data Entry Clerks
-30
-26
30
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
83%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
70%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
66%
AI and big data
66%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
97%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
78%
Creative thinking
75%
Networks and cybersecurity
74%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
68%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
92%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
86%
70%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
76%
73%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
38
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
23
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Information and Technology services
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 260


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
41% 38% 22%
48% 30% 22%
2030
26% 41% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
63%
63%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
61%
62%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
61%
47%
Supporting employee health and well-being
56%
64%
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
53%
43%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
64%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
31%
32%
Inability to attract talent to my ﬁrm
30%
27%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
30%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
49% 39%
11%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
31%
-100%
+100%
3%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent retention of existing workforce
17%
-100%
+100%
44%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
59
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
54
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
51
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
87
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
79
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
73
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Information and Technology services
Future of Jobs Report 2025 261


14%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
81%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
78%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
61%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
54%
41%
Broadening digital access
51%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
50%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
42%
46%
Slower economic growth
41%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
41%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
36%
34%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
29%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
21%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
17%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
16%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
87%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
58%
58%
New materials and composites
57%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
55%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
25%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
21%
18%
Satellites and space
technologies
8%
9%
Quantum and encryption
4%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
3%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
50
82
50
Sustainability Specialists
30
33
30
Assembly and Factory Workers
20
0
25
Civil Engineers
14
13
14
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-17
-20
18
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-21
-18
22
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
65%
Creative thinking
59%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
59%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
55%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
52%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
80%
Networks and cybersecurity
71%
Talent management
70%
Technological literacy
68%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
67%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
83%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
72%
70%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
69%
73%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
44
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
12
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Infrastructure
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 262


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
51% 29% 20%
48% 30% 22%
2030
36% 33% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
73%
63%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
68%
62%
Supporting employee health and well-being
68%
64%
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
54%
43%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
44%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
58%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
46%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
40%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
36%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
33%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
58%
3% 39%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
41%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent retention of existing workforce
67%
-100%
+100%
28%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
58
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
53
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
48
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
74
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
64
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
59
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Infrastructure
Future of Jobs Report 2025 263


19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
47%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
97%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
0%
Global 0%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
78%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
67%
50%
Slower economic growth
64%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
62%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
47%
41%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
42%
46%
Growing working-age
populations
40%
24%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
38%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
33%
47%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
22%
17%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
20%
23%
0
0%
0%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
98%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
51%
58%
Quantum and encryption
24%
12%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
20%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
13%
11%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
11%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
9%
18%
0
0%
0%
0
0%
0%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
40
82
40
Data Analysts and Scientists
35
41
35
Digital Transformation Specialists
33
35
33
Risk Management Specialists
11
17
11
Accountants and Auditors
-11
-8
14
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-29
-20
29
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
94%
Analytical thinking
89%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
83%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
75%
Creative thinking
72%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
97%
Creative thinking
86%
Networks and cybersecurity
81%
Technological literacy
81%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
77%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
97%
73%
Upskill your workforce
91%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
76%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
39
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
22
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Insurance and Pensions management
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 264


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
41% 44% 16%
48% 30% 22%
2030
25% 44% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
85%
64%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
77%
62%
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
74%
43%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
74%
63%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
74%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
69%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
49%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
47%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
38%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
33%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
59% 32%
9%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
36%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent retention of existing workforce
27%
-100%
+100%
6%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
65
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
59
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
50
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
91
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
85
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
77
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Insurance and Pensions management
Future of Jobs Report 2025 265


19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
39%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
91%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
94%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
61%
60%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
59%
40%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
50%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
44%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
43%
41%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
41%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
35%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
30%
24%
Slower economic growth
30%
42%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
24%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
20%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
15%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
91%
86%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
63%
11%
Robots and autonomous systems
59%
58%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
32%
18%
New materials and composites
24%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
24%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
20%
20%
Quantum and encryption
11%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
7%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Data Analysts and Scientists
50
41
50
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
38
82
38
Business Intelligence Analysts
24
18
24
Assembly and Factory Workers
5
0
19
Accountants and Auditors
-9
-8
13
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-17
-20
30
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
65%
Analytical thinking
60%
Systems thinking
57%
Empathy and active listening
51%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
51%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
92%
Technological literacy
81%
Networks and cybersecurity
78%
Creative thinking
76%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
68%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
85%
85%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
74%
63%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
65%
73%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
40
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Medical and Healthcare services
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 266


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
50% 27% 23%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 35% 31%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
63%
63%
Supporting employee health and well-being
57%
64%
Offering higher wages
49%
50%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
43%
47%
Offering diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies and programmes
40%
39%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Organization culture and resistance to change
59%
46%
Skills gaps in the labour market
46%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
46%
39%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
33%
32%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
30%
25%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
41% 47% 12%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
43%
-100%
+100%
37%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
69%
Talent retention of existing workforce
26%
-100%
+100%
43%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
51
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
40
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
34
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
88
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
59
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
56
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Medical and Healthcare services
Future of Jobs Report 2025 267


14%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
35%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
89%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
79%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
69%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
62%
41%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
55%
23%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
52%
46%
Broadening digital access
48%
60%
Slower economic growth
41%
42%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
41%
34%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
38%
40%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
31%
21%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
28%
50%
Growing working-age
populations
28%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
28%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
79%
41%
New materials and composites
66%
30%
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
66%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
48%
58%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
28%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
21%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
3%
11%
0
0%
0%
0
0%
0%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
43
82
43
Chemical Processing Plant
Operators
6
9
16
Mining, Petroleum and Other
Extraction Workers
6
1
21
General and Operations
Managers
2
4
2
Assembly and Factory Workers
-2
0
9
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-18
-20
18
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Creative thinking
65%
Systems thinking
65%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
55%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
55%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
55%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
79%
Talent management
68%
Environmental stewardship
68%
Networks and cybersecurity
65%
Technological literacy
65%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
79%
73%
Upskill your workforce
79%
85%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
74%
63%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
56
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
24
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
13
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
7
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Mining and metals
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 268


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
42% 27% 31%
48% 30% 22%
2030
28% 30% 42%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
79%
64%
Articulate business purpose and impact
63%
37%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
58%
62%
Offering higher wages
58%
50%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
58%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
64%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
43%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
39%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
39%
39%
Shortage of investment capital
39%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
47% 47%
6%
8% 41%
0%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
50%
-100%
+100%
33%
Talent development of existing workforce
17%
-100%
+100%
17%
Talent retention of existing workforce
72%
-100%
+100%
28%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
67
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
56
Global 39
Pay equity reviews and salary audits
56
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
74
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
74
Global 47
Transitioning people from jobs that AI will
cause to decline, to other roles within
your organization
63
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Mining and metals
Future of Jobs Report 2025 269


22%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
28%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
75%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
82%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
66%
47%
Slower economic growth
49%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
43%
41%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
40%
21%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
37%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
34%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
31%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
29%
23%
Broadening digital access
26%
60%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
23%
40%
Growing working-age
populations
14%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
6%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
86%
41%
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
69%
86%
New materials and composites
51%
30%
Robots and autonomous systems
40%
58%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
14%
20%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
9%
18%
Quantum and encryption
6%
12%
Satellites and space
technologies
3%
9%
0
0%
0%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
81
82
81
Project Managers
16
17
17
Mining, Petroleum and Other
Extraction Workers
5
1
7
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-19
-18
21
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-27
-20
27
Data Entry Clerks
-40
-26
40
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
81%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
69%
Motivation and self-awareness
63%
Analytical thinking
59%
Creative thinking
53%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
85%
Environmental stewardship
80%
Technological literacy
76%
Networks and cybersecurity
65%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
64%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
96%
85%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
71%
73%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
68%
63%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
44
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Oil and Gas
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 270


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
36% 39% 24%
48% 30% 22%
2030
26% 35% 40%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
71%
64%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
64%
62%
Offering higher wages
54%
50%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
43%
63%
Offering diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) policies and programmes
39%
39%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
54%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
43%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
40%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
37%
37%
Shortage of investment capital
34%
26%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
43% 46%
11%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
43%
-100%
+100%
18%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
75%
Talent retention of existing workforce
29%
-100%
+100%
50%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
50
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
43
Global 27
Embed DEI goals and solutions across
the supply chain
39
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
64
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
61
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
54
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Oil and Gas
Future of Jobs Report 2025 271


18%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
82%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
90%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
61%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
60%
47%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
58%
46%
Broadening digital access
53%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
47%
41%
Slower economic growth
46%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
44%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
31%
34%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
29%
23%
Growing working-age
populations
27%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
15%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
14%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
79%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
71%
58%
New materials and composites
61%
30%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
60%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
23%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
19%
20%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
14%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
8%
9%
Quantum and encryption
3%
12%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Business Development
Professionals
26
19
26
Supply Chain and Logistics
Specialists
17
17
19
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
6
5
6
General and Operations
Managers
4
4
9
Assembly and Factory Workers
-2
0
18
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-25
-20
25
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
69%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
65%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
63%
Technological literacy
61%
Creative thinking
59%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
88%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Networks and cybersecurity
73%
Technological literacy
72%
Creative thinking
69%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
88%
85%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
79%
73%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
72%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
41
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
31
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Production of Consumer goods
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 272


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
45% 30% 24%
48% 30% 22%
2030
32% 33% 36%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
73%
64%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
65%
62%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
65%
63%
Offering higher wages
60%
50%
Improving working hours and overtime policies
52%
38%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
67%
63%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
42%
37%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
37%
32%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
36%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
56% 42%
2%
52% 41%
8%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
57%
-100%
+100%
23%
Talent development of existing workforce
2%
-100%
+100%
70%
Talent retention of existing workforce
17%
-100%
+100%
41%
DEI Actions
1
53
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
46
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
42
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
75
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
70
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
55
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Production of Consumer goods
Future of Jobs Report 2025 273


19%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
41%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
90%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
95%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
67%
60%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
52%
46%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
44%
50%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
43%
40%
Slower economic growth
41%
42%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
37%
47%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
37%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
26%
41%
Growing working-age
populations
26%
24%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
20%
23%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
17%
17%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
13%
21%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
91%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
50%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
30%
41%
New materials and composites
22%
30%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
22%
20%
Quantum and encryption
17%
12%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
17%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
7%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
6%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
61
82
61
Business Intelligence Analysts
15
18
20
Project Managers
14
17
14
Accountants and Auditors
-8
-8
13
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-14
-20
19
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-22
-18
22
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
77%
Creative thinking
67%
Service orientation and customer service
58%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
58%
Empathy and active listening
54%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
98%
Technological literacy
75%
Creative thinking
69%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Environmental stewardship
63%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
88%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
75%
70%
Complement and augment your workforce with new technologies
70%
63%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
27
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
17
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
14
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Professional services
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 274


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
52% 30% 18%
48% 30% 22%
2030
31% 37% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
68%
63%
Offering higher wages
60%
50%
Supporting employee health and well-being
60%
64%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
53%
62%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
48%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
55%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
45%
46%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
40%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
34%
39%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
30%
25%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
60% 35%
5%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
28%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
0%
Talent retention of existing workforce
30%
-100%
+100%
25%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
60
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
53
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
53
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
83
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
78
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
63
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Professional services
Future of Jobs Report 2025 275


23%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
95%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
90%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
58%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
58%
50%
Slower economic growth
54%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
42%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
35%
47%
Growing working-age
populations
31%
24%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
31%
46%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
27%
34%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
19%
41%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
15%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
15%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
4%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
73%
86%
New materials and composites
42%
30%
Robots and autonomous systems
39%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
31%
41%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
15%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
15%
20%
Quantum and encryption
8%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
4%
11%
0
0%
0%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
75
82
75
Business Intelligence Analysts
26
18
26
Business Development
Professionals
22
19
22
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
18
5
18
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-29
-18
29
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-42
-20
42
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Empathy and active listening
61%
Creative thinking
61%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
57%
Dependability and attention to detail
52%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
52%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
86%
Creative thinking
73%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
68%
Networks and cybersecurity
65%
Motivation and self-awareness
62%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
86%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
81%
70%
Transition existing staff from declining to growing roles
57%
51%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
46
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
21
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
20
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
13
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Real Estate
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 276


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
64% 22% 15%
48% 30% 22%
2030
42% 27% 32%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
65%
64%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
60%
63%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
55%
62%
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
55%
43%
Articulate business purpose and impact
50%
37%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Inability to attract talent to the industry
60%
37%
Skills gaps in the labour market
52%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
44%
46%
Insufﬁcient understanding of opportunities
36%
25%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
36%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
57% 43%
0%
52% 41%
7%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
40%
-100%
+100%
45%
Talent development of existing workforce
25%
-100%
+100%
30%
Talent retention of existing workforce
65%
-100%
+100%
45%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
45
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
45
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
40
Global 33
Anti-harrasment protocols
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
74
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
58
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
53
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Real Estate
Future of Jobs Report 2025 277


28%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
38%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
78%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
87%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
69%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
64%
46%
Broadening digital access
60%
60%
Slower economic growth
47%
42%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
43%
40%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
41%
47%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
30%
41%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
27%
23%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
25%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
24%
24%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
18%
21%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
17%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
87%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
71%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
38%
41%
New materials and composites
33%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
18%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
13%
20%
Quantum and encryption
7%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
6%
11%
Satellites and space
technologies
3%
9%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
44
82
44
General and Operations
Managers
27
4
29
Business Development
Professionals
22
19
22
Shop Salespersons
14
6
24
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-14
-18
20
Data Entry Clerks
-24
-26
26
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Leadership and social inﬂuence
73%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
73%
Analytical thinking
71%
Empathy and active listening
68%
Motivation and self-awareness
64%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
86%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
69%
Technological literacy
69%
Networks and cybersecurity
68%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
67%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
88%
85%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
76%
73%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
70%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
18
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
10
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 278


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
56% 27% 17%
48% 30% 22%
2030
42% 32% 26%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Supporting employee health and well-being
76%
64%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
65%
63%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
62%
62%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
51%
47%
Offering higher wages
50%
50%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
65%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
39%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
38%
37%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
32%
39%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
58% 38%
4%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
36%
-100%
+100%
28%
Talent development of existing workforce
14%
-100%
+100%
30%
Talent retention of existing workforce
67%
-100%
+100%
37%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
51
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
45
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
38
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
70
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
68
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
63
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Retail and wholesale of consumer goods
Future of Jobs Report 2025 279


35%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
37%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
84%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
88%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
66%
47%
Broadening digital access
56%
60%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
50%
41%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
50%
50%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
44%
46%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
44%
40%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
43%
34%
Slower economic growth
40%
42%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
36%
23%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
29%
21%
Growing working-age
populations
26%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
20%
17%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
92%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
66%
58%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
56%
41%
New materials and composites
31%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
25%
18%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
20%
20%
Satellites and space
technologies
17%
9%
Quantum and encryption
8%
12%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
6%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
Autonomous and Electric Vehicle
Specialists
53
48
53
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
41
82
41
Supply Chain and Logistics
Specialists
21
17
23
General and Operations
Managers
4
4
14
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-19
-18
29
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-21
-20
23
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
70%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
67%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
59%
Resource management and operations
56%
Motivation and self-awareness
54%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
94%
Technological literacy
77%
Networks and cybersecurity
76%
Analytical thinking
70%
Creative thinking
69%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
80%
85%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
70%
70%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
67%
73%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
42
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
30
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
19
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
9
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Supply-chain and transportation
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 280


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
49% 30% 21%
48% 30% 22%
2030
34% 32% 34%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
69%
62%
Supporting employee health and well-being
59%
64%
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
58%
63%
Offering higher wages
52%
50%
Tapping into diverse talent pools
46%
47%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
55%
63%
Organization culture and resistance to change
54%
46%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
44%
39%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
37%
37%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
35%
32%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
61% 30%
9%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
39%
-100%
+100%
28%
Talent development of existing workforce
0%
-100%
+100%
1%
Talent retention of existing workforce
29%
-100%
+100%
18%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
53
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
44
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
43
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
79
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
68
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
68
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Supply-chain and transportation
Future of Jobs Report 2025 281


20%
Global 22%
Labour-market churn
Five-year structural labour-force churn
40%
Global 39%
Skill disruption
Shares of core skills which will change
85%
Global 83%
Organizations with DEI priorities
Share of organizations with DEI priorities
89%
Global 88%
AI exposure
Share of organizations running AI programmes
Trend outlook
Macrotrends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identiﬁed this trend as likely to drive transformation in their organization
Industry
Global
Broadening digital access
81%
60%
Rising cost of living, higher
prices or inﬂation
46%
50%
Increased efforts and
investments to reduce carbon…
41%
47%
Slower economic growth
41%
42%
Increased focus on labour and
social issues
35%
46%
Increased efforts and
investments to adapt to climate…
32%
41%
Increased geopolitical division
and conﬂicts
32%
34%
Growing working-age
populations
30%
24%
Stricter anti-trust and competition
regulations
24%
17%
Ageing and declining working-
age populations
24%
40%
Increased government subsidies
and industrial policy 
16%
21%
Increased restrictions to global
trade and investment
14%
23%
Technology trends
Technology trends driving business transformation
Share of organizations surveyed that identify the technology trend as likely to drive business transformation
Industry
Global
AI and information processing
technologies (big data, VR, AR…
100%
86%
Robots and autonomous systems
58%
58%
Satellites and space
technologies
40%
9%
Energy generation, storage and
distribution
34%
41%
Semiconductors and computing
technologies
34%
20%
Quantum and encryption
29%
12%
New materials and composites
16%
30%
Sensing, laser and optical
technologies
16%
18%
Biotechnology and gene
technologies
5%
11%
Jobs outlook
Key roles for business transformation
Roles most selected by organizations surveyed, ordered by net role growth, and their net growth and
structural churn (percent)
Net growth
Job Growth
Job displacement
Net Growth
Global net growth
1. Net growth
2. Global net growth
3. Churn
NET GROWTH
1.
2.
3.
AI and Machine Learning
Specialists
65
82
65
Data Analysts and Scientists
52
41
52
Data Engineers
35
36
35
Managing Directors and Chief
Executives
13
5
13
Accounting, Bookkeeping and
Payroll Clerks
-17
-18
27
Administrative Assistants and
Executive Secretaries
-24
-20
24
Skill outlook
Skills of increasing use by 2030
Skills of the most increase in use by 2030
Industry
Global
CORE SKILLS OF 2025
Analytical thinking
86%
Leadership and social inﬂuence
76%
Creative thinking
66%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
66%
AI and big data
66%
SKILLS OF INCREASING USE BY 2030
AI and big data
100%
Resilience, ﬂexibility and agility
79%
Curiosity and lifelong learning
75%
Networks and cybersecurity
75%
Creative thinking
75%
Workforce Strategy outlook
Key components of your workforce strategy by 2030
% surveyed organizations selecting the macrotrend to drive workforce transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Upskill your workforce
96%
85%
Accelerate the automation of processes and tasks
82%
73%
Hire staff with new skills to meet emerging business needs
70%
70%
Upskilling and reskilling outlook
37
Global 41
Would not need training by
2030
29
Global 29
Would be upskilled in their
current role
24
Global 19
Would be upskilled and
redeployed
11
Global 11
Would be unlikely to upskill
1 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Telecommunications
-100%
100%
0
Future of Jobs Report 2025 282


Human-machine frontier
Human-machine frontier
% of tasks completed by predominantly people, predominantly technology, or a combination of both
Human
Global
Combination
Global
Technology
Global
ALL TASKS
Now
40% 33% 27%
48% 30% 22%
2030
28% 33% 39%
33% 33% 34%
Business Practice
Business practices to improve talent availability
Top practices with the greatest potential to improve talent availability (share of organizations surveyed)
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Providing effective reskilling and upskilling
67%
63%
Improving talent progression and promotion processes
63%
62%
Offering remote and hybrid work opportunities within countries
59%
43%
Supporting employee health and well-being
56%
64%
Offering higher wages
52%
50%
Key barriers for business transformation
Transformation barriers
Share of organisations surveyed expecting the barriers will hinder their organisation transformation
Industry
Global
INDUSTRY
GLOBAL
Skills gaps in the labour market
66%
63%
Outdated or inﬂexible regulatory framework
42%
39%
Organization culture and resistance to change
40%
46%
Lack of adequate data and technical infrastructure
29%
32%
Inability to attract talent to the industry
24%
37%
Wage outlook
Wage trends
Share of organizations projecting the share of wages and other forms of workers’ compensation as
percentage of the company’s total revenues
Growing
Global
Similar
Global
Declining
Global
41% 52%
7%
8% 52% 41%
Talent availability outlook
Talent trend
Share of respondents who expect their talent availability to improve or worsen in ﬁve years
Improving
Global average
Worsening
Global average
Talent availability when hiring
48%
-100%
+100%
40%
Talent development of existing workforce
36%
-100%
+100%
8%
Talent retention of existing workforce
40%
-100%
+100%
24%
DEI Actions
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the diversity, equity and inclusion measure
67
Global 51
Run comprehensive DEI training for
managers and staff
52
Global 48
Targeted recruitment, retention and
progression initiatives
48
Global 42
Set DEI goals, targets or quotas
AI Strategy
Share of employers surveyed planning to implement the stated strategy in response to AI's increasing
capability and prevalence
89
Global 69
Hiring new people with skills to design AI
tools and enhancements appropriate for
the organization-speciﬁc skills
74
Global 77
Reskilling and upskilling your existing
workforce to better work alongside AI
67
Global 62
Hiring new people with skills to better
work alongside AI
2 / 2
Industry Proﬁle
Telecommunications
Future of Jobs Report 2025 283


Contributors
At the World Economic Forum Centre for the New Economy and Society:
Project Team
Attilio Di Battista 
Head, Impact Design and Coordination 
Sam Grayling  
Insights Lead, Work, Wages and Job Creation
Ximena Játiva 
Insights Lead, Education, Skills and Learning
Till Leopold 
Head, Work, Wages and Job Creation
Ricky Li 
Insight and Data Lead
Shuvasish Sharma 
Insights Specialist, Work, Wages and Job Creation
Saadia Zahidi 
Managing Director 
We are extremely grateful to our colleagues in the Centre for the New Economy 
and Society for their support, especially to: Neil Allison, Silja Baller, Eoin Ó 
Cathasaigh, Alison Eaglesham, Genesis Elhussein, Sarah Fabijanic, Sriram 
Gutta, Elselot Hasselaar, Adèle Jacquard, Isabelle Leliaert, Ostap Lutsyshyn, 
Tanya Milberg, Aarushi Singhania, and Steffica Warwick. We also extend our 
thanks to Mirek Dušek for his feedback and support and to our colleagues at 
the Global Communications Group.
We are also grateful to Michael Fisher for his excellent copyediting work, to 
our colleague Floris Landi and MIKO Studio’s Laurence Denmark for their 
exceptional cover and shareable design, to Salesforce’s Campbell Powers and 
Justine Moscatello and Lovelytics’ Joely Friedman and Jonathan Raskauskas 
for their design and execution of dashboard in the report reader, and to Accurat 
for their outstanding graphic designing and layout of the report, as well as for 
their outstanding work to create the report’s profiles and online Data Explorer. 
For more information, or to get involved, please contact cnes@weforum.org.
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025 284


The Centre for the New Economy and Society aims to empower decision-
making among leaders in business and policy by providing fresh, actionable 
insight through collaboration with leading experts and data-holding companies. 
We greatly appreciate the collaboration with Coursera, Indeed, LinkedIn and 
ADP for this year’s report and would specifically like to thank the following 
contributors:
Coursera 
Maria-Nicole Ikonomou, Head of Global Enterprise PR & Communications  
Anna Zhao, Data Scientist  
Harshal Tijare, Data Analyst
Indeed 
Svenja Gudell, Chief Economist, Indeed Hiring Lab  
Annina Hering, Senior Economist, Indeed Hiring Lab  
Arcenis Rojas, Data Scientist, Indeed Hiring Lab  
Chris Glynn, Director of Data Science, Indeed Hiring Lab 
Cory Hopkins, Senior Editor, Indeed Hiring Lab
LinkedIn 
Kristin Lena Keveloh, Senior Lead Manager, Public Policy & Economic Graph 
Akash Kaura, Staff Data Scientist, LinkedIn
ADP  
Nela Richardson, Chief Economist, ESG Officer & Head of ADP Research 
Ben Hanowell, Director of People Analytics  
Dr. Mary Hayes, Director of Research 
Jared Northup, Research Analyst
Collaborators
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Future of Jobs Report 2025 285


Acknowledgments
Future of Jobs Report 2025
January 2025
Argentina 
IAE Business School, Universidad Austral 
Eduardo Fracchia, Director of Academic 
Department of Economics 
Martin Calveira, Research Economist
Australia 
Australian Industry Group  
Dr Caroline Smith, Executive Director, Centre for 
Education and Training 
Sarah Pilcher, Research and Policy Manager, Centre 
for Education and Training 
Brett Crosley, Research and Policy Officer, Centre 
for Education and Training
Bahrain 
Bahrain Economic Development Board 
Nada Al Saeed, Chief Strategy 
Redha AlAnsari, Executive Director 
Bahrain Labour Fund (Tamkeen) 
Amer Marhoon, Managing Director at Skills Bahrain 
Nada Deen, Executive Director, Sector Skills 
Development at Skills Bahrain
Brazil 
Fundação Dom Cabral, Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship Center 
Carlos Arruda, Professor  
and Member of FDC Innovation 
and Entrepreneurship Center 
Hugo Tadeu, Professor and Director 
of FDC Innovation and Entrepreneurship Center 
Miguel F. Costa, Researcher
Colombia 
Asociación Nacional de Empresarios de 
Colombia (ANDI) 
Imelda Restrepo, Director, Center for Economic 
Studies 
Paola Buendía García, Executive Vice President
Education for Employment 
Ashley Barry, Director of Strategy & Learning, 
Education for Employment - Global 
Houda Barakate, CEO, Education for Employment 
- Maroc 
Chaimaa Zaher, Partnership and Program 
Coordinator, Education for Employment - Maroc 
Sarah Gomaa, Partnerships and Job Placement 
Officer, Education for Employment - Egypt 
Menna Muhammed, Partnerships and Job 
Placement Associate, Education for Employment – 
Egypt
European Association for People Management 
(EAPM) 
Berna Öztinaz, President 
Ulrik Brix, Board Sponsor, Surveys and Insights, 
CEO at NOCA 
Kai Helfritz, Working Group Lead, Surveys and 
Insights 
Rebecca Normand, Head of EAPM Secretariat 
Dana Cavaleru, Executive Director, HR Management 
Club Romania
Egypt, Arab Rep. 
Egyptian Center for Economic Studies - ECES 
Abla Abdel Latif, Executive Director and Director of 
Research 
Mohamed Hosny, Economist 
Ahmed Maged, Field Researcher 
Hossam Khater, Field Researcher 
Mohamed Khater, Field Researcher
India 
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) 
Sougata Roy Choudhury, Executive Director 
Kabir Krishna, Deputy Director 
Ravinder, Manager 
Anuradha Nirwan, Executive Officer
Survey Partners
The World Economic Forum’s Centre for the New Economy and Society is 
pleased to acknowledge and thank the following organizations, without which 
the realization of the Future of Jobs Report 2025 would not have been feasible:
The Centre for the New Economy and Society would like to thank the Jobs 
Initiative Champions and Reskilling Revolution Champions for their leadership 
and guidance on the focus of this Report.
Future of Jobs Report 2025 286


International Association of Ports and Harbors 
(IAPH) 
Patrick Verhoeven, managing director 
Nick Blackmore, director business development 
Fabienne Van Loo, membership outreach and 
Europe office manager
Israel 
JDC-Tevet in partnership with the Ministry of 
Labour 
Avraham Fleishon, Head of Data, JDC-Tevet 
Elizabeth Levi, Resource Development, JDC-Tevet 
Noa Ecker, Strategy Manager, Ministry of Labour 
Sapir Yany, Project Manager, NGG 
Ran Lefler, Head of Evaluation, Research and 
Development, NGG
Japan 
Waseda University 
Jusuke JJ Ikegami, Professor 
Mitsuyo Tsubayama, Coordinator 
Shoko Miya, Coordinator
Kazakhstan 
Center for Strategic Initiatives LPP 
Olzhas Khudaibergenov, Senior Partner 
Kamilya Suleimenova, Project Manager 
Maryam Galyamova, Senior Consultant 
Anel Rakhimova, Consultant 
Akku Bakisheva, Senior Consultant
Latvia and Lithuania 
ERDA Group 
Zane Čulkstēna, Founder and Business Partner 
Katya Leidmane, Executive Director 
Inese Jeļisejeva, Project Assistant 
Aušra Bytautienė, Director, Personalo valdymo 
profesionalų asociacija 
Jurgita Lemešiūtė, Managing Partner, PeopleLink
Mexico 
Instituto Mexicano para la Competitividad - 
IMCO 
Valeria Moy, General Director 
Ivania Mazari, Program Manager
Netherlands 
Amsterdam Centre for Business Innovation, 
University of Amsterdam 
Prof.dr. Henk W. Volberda, Director and Professor 
Dr. Rick Hollen 
Raoul Breij, MSc
Serbia 
Foundation for the Advancement of Economics 
- FREN  
Aleksandar Radivojević, Research Coordinator 
Dejan Molnar, Director
Slovenia 
Institute for Economic Research 
Dr Tjaša Bartolj, Researcher 
Sonja Uršič, Researcher
South Africa 
Harambee Youth Employment Accelerator 
Victoria Duncan, Head, Research and Evidence 
Rob Urquhart, Strategy, Research and Evidence 
Lead
Spain 
Asociación Española de Direccion y Desarrollo 
de Personas (AEDIPE) 
Roser Segarra, President 
Maria Obiols Ferré, EAPM Delegate and Board 
Member 
Roger Iliterasriera, Board Member 
Sergi Riau, Board Member 
Susana Gutierrez, Board Member
Thailand 
Chulalongkorn University 
Wilert Puriwat, President 
Kanyarat (Lek) Sanoran, Associate Professor 
Nat Kulvanich, Assistant Professor
Tunisia 
IACE (Institut Arabe des Chefs d’Entreprise) 
Majdi Hassen, Executive Director  
Hajer Karaa, Head of the Studies Department 
Türkiye 
TÜSIAD, Sabanci University Competitivness 
Forum - REF 
Esra Durceylan Kaygusuz, Assistant Professor of 
Economics, Sabancı University, Forum director 
Sezen Uğurlu Sum, Competitiveness Forum Project 
Specialist
Viet Nam 
Talentnet Corporation 
Trinh Tieu, Founder & CEO  
Ha Nguyen, Chief Marketing & Customer 
Experience Officer 
Khanh Nguyen, Associate Marketing Director 
Huy Le, Senior Marketing Specialist
Uzbekistan 
Westminster International University in Tashkent 
Bakhrom Mirkasimov, Deputy Rector,  
Nargiza Kabilova, Research Assistant 
Nilufar Abduvalieva, Research Assistant 
Maksim Kim, Director of the Centre for Professional 
and Lifelong Education 
Nozima Yusupova, Manager at the Centre for 
Professional and Lifelong Education
Zimbabwe 
National Competitiveness Commission 
Phillip Phiri, Executive Director 
Brighton Shayanewako, Director, Competitiveness 
Douglas Muzimba, Manager, International 
Competitiveness 
Munyaradzi Muchemwa, Economist 
Elizabeth Magwaza, Economist
Future of Jobs Report 2025 287


Thank you also to the following organizations for 
contributing to the dissemination of the Future of 
Jobs Survey: 
	–
Asociatia HR Management Club (HR Club)
	–
Associação Portuguesa De Gestão Das 
Pessoas (APG)
	–
Associazione Italiana Per La Direzione Del 
Personale (AIDP)
	–
Deutsche Gesellschaft Für Personalführung 
(DGFP)
	–
HR Norge
	–
Indonesia Ministry of Planning
	–
Indonesian Chamber of Commerce And Industry 
(KADIN Indonesia)
	–
International Women in Mining (IWIM)
	–
Network of Corporate Academies (NOCA)
	–
Personalo Valdymo Profesionalu Asociacija 
(PVPA)
	–
Société Suisse De Gestion Des Ressources 
Humaines (HR Swiss)
	–
Türkiye İnsan Yönetimi Derneği (PERYÖN)
Centre for the New Economy and Society Partners
2045 Studio 
Accenture 
Adecco Group 
ADP 
African Rainbow Minerals 
Agility 
AIG 
Al Dabbagh Group Holding 
Al Futtaim Private Company 
AlixPartners 
Allianz 
Amazon 
AMTD Group 
APCO 
Apparel Group 
Aramco 
Awardco 
Bahrain Economic Development Board 
BairesDev 
Bajaj Group 
Banco Bradesco 
Banco BTG Pactual 
Bank of America 
Bank of Montreal 
Barclays Bank 
Bridas Energy Holding 
BetterUp 
BHP Group 
BigSpring 
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
Bloomberg 
BRANDi and Companies 
Burda 
Capgemini 
Capital A Berhad 
Carlsberg 
Censia 
Chanel 
Check Point Software Technologies 
Cisco Systems 
Cognizant 
Corficolombiana 
Crescent Enterprises 
Crescent Group 
CVC Capital Partners 
DailyPay 
Daniel J. Edelman 
Dassault Systèmes 
Deel 
Lattice 
Dell Technologies 
Deloitte 
Deutsche Bank 
DIO 
Dogan Şirketler Grubu Holding 
Dotlumen SRL 
DP World 
dsm-firmenich 
e& 
Educational Testing Services 
Egon Zehnder 
Entri Software 
Eurasian Group 
Euroclear 
Moonhub 
EY 
Flora Food Group 
Fortinet 
Gap 
Giftolexia Solutions 
Glean Technologies 
Goodwall 
Alphabet 
Grupo Mariposa-Apex 
Grupo Salinas 
Hackensack Meridian Health 
Heidrick & Struggles 
HEINEKEN 
Henry Schein 
Hewlett Packard Enterprise 
Hitachi 
Hologic 
Holtzbrinck Publishing Group 
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEX) 
HP 
HSBC Holdings 
hundo 
IBM Corporation 
Future of Jobs Report 2025 288


Ifood.Com 
Indiavidual Learning 
Indorama Ventures 
Indus Group 
Infosys 
INGKA GROUP I IKEA 
Intel Corporation 
Intercorp Peru 
Invesco 
Itaú Unibanco 
JBS 
Jerónimo Martins 
JLL 
Kearney 
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (KKR) 
L’Oréal 
LGT Group Foundation 
Inclusively 
Limak Holding 
LinkedIn Corporation 
Lord, Abbett & Co. LLC 
Manchester United Football Club Limited 
ManpowerGroup 
Marsh & McLennan Companies 
Mayo Clinic 
McKinsey & Company 
Medtronic 
Merck 
Microsoft 
Mogul 
MUFG (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.) 
Naspers Limited 
Comcast Corporation 
Nestlé 
Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE) 
Nexthink 
Nielsen 
Novartis International 
NxtWave Disruptive Technologies 
NYSE Group 
Omnicom Group 
Open Society Institute 
Paradox 
PayPal 
Pearson 
PepsiCo 
Petroleo Brasileiro - PETROBRAS 
Yildiz Holding 
PwC 
Publicis Groupe 
QI Group 
Randstad 
RBC Financial Group 
Recruit Holdings 
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals 
Reliance Industries 
Rio Tinto 
RMZ Corporation 
Royal Philips 
Russell Reynolds Associates 
Salesforce 
Sanofi 
SAP SE 
Saudi Arabian Mining Company (Ma’aden) 
Saudi National Bank 
Sempra 
ServiceNow 
Shell 
Siemens 
Skillsoft 
SONAE 
Standard Chartered Bank 
State Street Corporation 
Swiss Re 
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company 
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA) 
Teck Resources Limited 
Telefónica 
TestGorilla 
The Bank Of New York Mellon Corporation 
The Estée Lauder Companies 
The New York Times Company 
The Samuel Group 
The Standard Bank Group 
Trip.com Group 
Uber Technologies 
UBS 
uLesson Education 
Unilever 
Verizon Communications 
Visa 
Wellcome Trust 
Wilco 
Wipro 
Workday 
WorkWhile 
WorldQuant 
Zoom Video Communications 
Zurich Insurance Company
Future of Jobs Report 2025 289


World Economic Forum
91–93 route de la Capite
CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva
Switzerland 
Tel.: 	+41 (0) 22 869 1212
Fax: +41 (0) 22 786 2744
contact@weforum.org
www.weforum.org
The World Economic Forum, 
committed to improving  
the state of the world, is the 
International Organization for 
Public-Private Cooperation.
 
The Forum engages the 
foremost political, business  
and other leaders of society  
to shape global, regional 
and industry agendas.
